housing
{  
    August 03 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/localnotes/planning-in-fingal-27785253.html }
PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 21/07/00 Camilus Archer, Sandyhills, Rush, Co. Dublin, for compost store and associated works on site at Palmer Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. O. Plunkett, 121 Gaybrook Lawns, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for house adjoining 121 Gaybrook Lawns at 121 Gaybrook Lawns, Malahide, Co. Dublin. J. Wade Developments Ltd., Castlelands, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for construction of 94 no. dwellings comprising of 1 no. detached dormer, 10 no. 4 bed 2 storey semi-detached, 56 no. 3 bed 2 storey semi detached and 27 no. 3 bed 2 storey terraced dwellings in 7 blocks and revisions to road and housing layout on already approved site (reg. ref. F98A/0060, housing development of 66 units) at Rosepark, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. J. Tobin, Ballagh, Riverstown, Birr, Co. Tipperary, for permission to build two storey house with yard and out building and waste water treatment plant at The Glebe, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Mr. B. O'Donoghue, 2 Carrickbrack Park, Sutton, Co. Dublin, for extension/minor alterations to rear of existing shop and for first floor offices on site no. 8, and proposed ground floor shops (2) or financial service outlets (2) with offices over first floor level to nos. 9 and part 10, in addition to 2nd floor two bedroomed dormer apartments over nos. 8/9/10 Main Street at 8/9/10 Main Street, Howth, Co. Dublin. Precision Construction Unit D2, Airport Business Park, Swords Road, Co. Dublin, for 7 dormer bungalows with biocycle treatment plant at Loughshinny, Co. Dublin. Moloney Builders & Developers Ltd., 30 Dale Course Road, Tralee, Co. Kerry, to extend new road and add seven detached two storey houses to current development plan ref. F99A/0527 at Northcliff Heights, Skerries, Co. Dublin. C. Hand, Turkinstown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for dormer style 4 bedroom house, garage and effluent treatment plant at Inch Townland, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Moloney Developers & Builders Ltd., Tralee, Co. Kerry, to extend new road and add five detached two storey houses to current development plan ref. F99A/0527 at Northcliff Heights, Skerries, Co. Dublin. D. & K. Leonard, Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing glasshouses and side extension to existing bungalow. Relocate vehicle entrance, build two new two-storey houses at Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Mrs. Bronwyn Reilly, Lerrig, Old Carrickbrack Road, Bailey, Howth, Co. Dublin, for new stone wall with new pedestrian gate, repositioning of existing entrance, new parking area beyond entrance and new conservatory to the south of existing house at Lerrig, Old Carrickbrack Road, Bailey, Howth, Co. Dublin. Liam Matthews, Ballykea, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for Proposed retention of an existing single storey workshop, the proposed single storey extension to the rear of the workshop, the proposed single storey extension to the front of existing dwelling at Ballykea, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Woodford Developments Ltd., 37 Wexford Street, Dublin 2, for modifications to residential blocks L,M,N & O (176 No. Apartments) and associated carparking and site works at the Development at Santry Demesne, Dublin 9 previously approved under Planning Reg.Ref.F98A/1328, An Bord Pleanala Ref. PL 06F.112730. These modifications comprise alterations to internal apartment layouts; omission of a staircase and lift (Blocks L and M); relocation of underground carpark and associated siteworks. The number of apartments and parking spaces remain as previously approved under Planning Reg.Ref. F98A/1328, An Bord Pleanala Ref.PL 06F.112730. The is within the overall Development at Santry Demesne, Dublin 9 which is bounded by Swords Road, Santry Avenue, and Ballymun Road at Santry Demesne, Dublin 9. Mullen Developments, 14 The Park, Skerries Rock, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for retention of amendments to previous permission (ref.F99A/ 0291) to include minor alterations to plans and elevations of two storey terrace of four houses (two No. two bed and two no. three bed) at sites numbered 196-199 (house numbers 29, 31, 33 and 35 Kelly's Bay Pier) all at lands adjacent Rail Line and Kelly's Lane, adjacent Rail Line and Kelly's Lane, Balbriggan Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Martin Foreman, 16, Vernon Heath, Clontarf, Dublin , for first floor windows and side extension at unit 94, Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13. Derek & Brian McGuinness, Ceolnamara, Main St., Rush, Co. Dublin, for a building for the storage of agricultural produce and machinery with a garage and maintenance area for associated commercial and agricultural vehicles with associated office space and for the installation of a biocycle waste water treatment system and irrigation area at The Common, Tyrellstown Big, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Mr. J. Hand, Mr. J. Hand's Dwelling, Regles, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for a proposed agro grading shed at Mr. J. Hand's Farmyard, Ivy House, The Green, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Jim Thomas, 2 Castle Park, Swords, Co. Dublin, to to construct two storey childcare facility incorporating a change of use of existing shop to childcare facility, single storey extension to rear of shop unit and 6 car parking spaces to the front at Jim Thomas, Butcher, Portrane Road, Donabate, Co. Dublin Michelle Moran, Rowlestown East, Swords, Co. Dublin, to the retension and completion of minor alterations to previously approved dwelling (Reg.Ref.F98A/0860) and new double garage at Rowlestown East, Swords, Co. Dublin. R. Ward,, 150 Howth Road, Dublin 13, for 4 semi-detached houses at rear at 150 Howth road, Dublin 13. Thomas Moore (Jnr.), Jordanstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for erection of a dormer dwelling and waste water treatment system at Collinstown, Skerries Road, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Peter & Junie Casey, The Rath, Stamullen, Co. Dublin, for dwelling house with septic tank and puraflo waste water treatment system at Tobertown, Stamullen, Co. Dublin. H & R. Construction, Dermotstown, Ring Common, Naul, Co. Dublin, for proposed town house and entrance to Road at site between Nos. 39 and 41 Clonard St at Site between 39 and 41 Clonard Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Derek Clinton, Darcystown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for 1 no. bungalow and associated site work at Darcystown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin P. & A. Young, Inglefield, Hanlons Lane, Strand Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin , for a dormer bungalow at Inglefield, Hanlons Lane, Strand Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Rhonda & Colin Brophy, 16 The Old Hill, Ratoath, Co. Meath, for new 2 storey dwelling and vehicular entrance to side of dwelling at Naul Village, Co. Dublin. Ms. Therese Lawlor, Bloomville, The Hill, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for covered swimming pool to the rear at Bloomville, The Hill, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Ms. Rosa Loughran, 12 Greenanstown, Stamullen, Co. Meath, for single storey dwelling on sub-division at 52 Derham Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Biscuit Makers Ltd. Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for erection of a 243 metre sq. factory extension, a 148 metre sq. 2 storey office extension and 3 no. ingredients storage silos. Retain a 24 metre sq. boiler room extension, a 172 metre sq. dispatch extension, a sunken dock leveller ramp area, 5 no. ingredients storage silos, syrup tank bund enclosure and associated concrete circulation yard at Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin. John McColgan, Danes Hollow, Carrickbrack Road, Howth, Co.Dublin, for revised vehicular entrance and new gates to already approved house (reg. ref. F98A/0179), F99B/0155) at Dane's Hollow, Carrickbrack Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Mr. Patrick O'Callaghan, 10 Carrickhill Walk, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension and conservatory to rear and side at 10 Carrickhill Walk, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Sean & Mary McGoldrick, 18 Alden Road, Dublin 13, to build a bedroom and bathroom over existing garage and to convert the attic into bedroom with dormer window to rear at 18 Alden Road, Dublin 13. Frank O'Keeffe Esq., 108 Verbena Avenue, Dublin 13, to convert garage into study, shower compartment, utility and to extend over with ensuite bedroom at 108 Verbena Avenue, Dublin 13. Thomas James McMahon, Dunbride, 6 Nashville Park, Howth, Co. Dublin, to to convert existing hardstand area into garage with overhead storage loft at 6 Nashville Park, Howth, Co. Dublin. Caroline Butterfield, 15 Asgard Park, Howth, Dublin 13, for bedroom extension at first floor level and alterations to dwelling at 15 Asgard Park, Howth, Dublin 13. Mr. Derek and Ms. Marian Reid, 59 Seapark, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for conversion of existing garage and utility area to living room and kitchen and utility area including a new hipped lean-to roof at 59 Seapark, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. Tom Sweeney, 3 Turvey Crescent, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for Dormer style, Family Room, Utility/Playroom and Bedroom Extension at 3 Turvey Crescent, Donabate, Co. Dublin. r. Paul Wright, 4 Turvey Crescent, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for Dormer Style, Family Room, Utility/Playroom and Bedroom Extension at 4 Turvey Crescent, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Dermot F. Reilly, 20 Station Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, for new single storey sun room to rear at 20 Station Road, Sutton, Dublin 13. John Lawler, The Bungalow, Loughshinney, Skerries, Co. Dublin, to erect two storey extension to rear at The Bungalow, Loughshinney, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Mark and Catherine Connolly, 38 Dalriada, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to the side of an existing house at 38 Dalriada, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Marcus Hamill, 2 Lissadell Crescent, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for new two storey side and single storey rear extensions at 2 Lissadell Crescent, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. Ray Campion, Balgriffin, Malahide Road, Dublin 17, for single storey extension to the side and front of existing dwelling at Balgriffin, Malahide Road, Dublin 17. E. & P. Mason, 94 Downside Park (Phase 1), Skerries, Co. Dublin, to build single storey extension to side and rear of dwelling comprising of garage to side and sunroom to rear at 94 Downside Park, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Ms. C. O'Sullivan, 6 Sea Park Hill, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for dormer window and attic conversion at 6 Sea Park Hill, Malahide, Co. Dublin. B. Bannigan, 13 St. Sylvesters Villas, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey dormer roof extension at 13 St. Sylvester Villas, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mae Duddy, 13 Parnell Cottages, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension over existing single storey extension to rear at Parnell Cottages, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Dr. Gary Ellison, 43 The Dunes, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for first floor bedroom extension to side including three velux roof lights and a single storey extension to front with new pitched roof at 43 The Dunes, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. F. Rafferty, 2 Purley Park, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to front and rear, conversion of garage and first floor extension to rear at 2 Purley Park, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Viewfair Limited, 24 Adare Park, Coolock, Dublin 5, for 5 no. dormer type bungalows and ancillary services at Loughshinny, Co. Dublin. Miss Sarah Monks and Miss Jennifer Monks, Dermotstown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for demotition of one residence and replacement with two bungalows with seperate vehicular entrances, two bio cycles, two stable blocks with six stalls each, stud railing fence, all on twenty acres at Dermotstown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. C. Marren, Lecklinstown, Naul, Co. Dublin, for Bungalow and Bio Cycle Unit at Lecklinstown, Naul, Co. Dublin. D. Fitzharris, Ballamadun, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for erect a dormer bungalow, new entrance and install a biocycle waste water treatment unit at Ballamadun, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Joan Cody, 47 Bayside Boulevard South, Sutton, Dublin 13, for retention of existing wall to rear and side at 47 Bayside Boulevard South, Sutton, Dublin 13.  FINGAL COUNTY COUNCIL LIST OF DECISIONS MADE FROM 17/07/2000 TO 21/07/2000 Decisions to GRANT PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: R. Rennicks, 9 Old Haystown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for bungalow beside 9 Old Haystown, Rush, Co. Dublin at 9 Old Haystown, Rush, Co. Dublin. D. Devine, Commons, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for for revised dormer dwelling type with Biocycle system and for garage at Kingstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin. P. Farrelly, 3 St. Lawrence Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for demolish and rebuild single storey domestic annexe at rear as a 2 storey bedrooms extension and to provide for new vehicular access onto the site at 3 Saint Lawrence Road, Howth, Dublin 13. Island Associates Limited, 77 Merrion Square, Dublin 2, for change of use of part of light industrial/office use to call centre/direct marketing facility/fulfilment services facility/data processing/information technology/software development/science and technology/research and development/office units, incorporating new toilets, new 2 storey entrance foyer and escape stair well, alterations to facade and associated site works to mezzanine level, Unit 4, gridlines E-F and 23-26 at Swords Business Park at Unit 4, 23-26 Swords Business Campus, Balheary Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Moriarty Holdings Ltd., Unit 15 Palmerstown Shopping Centre, Palmerstown, Dublin 20, for A.T.M. installation to the main facade at 47/49 Drogheda Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Joan McCormack, 23 Swords Manor Way, Swords, Co. Dublin, for extension of opening hours of existing playschool facility at 23 Swords Manor Way, Swords, Co. Dublin. Homeloans, C & G Financial Services, 13 Main Street, Ashbourne, Co. Meath, for change of use of ground-floor office to retail and erect an advertising sign to front at site bounded by rear of nos. 3 & 4 Main Street, Swords, and side of no. 7 Bridge Street, Swords at rear of nos. 3 & 4 Main Street, Swords, and side of no. 7 Bridge Street, Swords, Co. Dublin. DHL International (Ireland) Ltd., Cargo Terminal 2, Dublin Airport, for new back lit signage at the shop front level to the Malahide Road elevation and to 'the gut' pedestrian access elevation, and high level signage on the corner of Malahide Road and 'the gut' at no. 3 Malahide Road, Swords at no. 3 Malahide Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Peter and Celine Costello, 'Innisfail', Old Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for alterations to approved plans to demolish and reconstruct original cottage in modern construction at 'Innisfail', Drumnigh Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. David Grant, c/o Harp Inn Pub, North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin, for alterations and additions to previously approved development with retail unit (Reg. Ref. F98A/0201) comprising conversion of previously approved attic space to 8 no. two bedroom apartments and minor changes to elevations comprising the addition of dormer windows to previously approved slated profile at Harp Inn, North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin. D. & M. Grant, c/o Harp Inn Pub, North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin, for minor alterations to previously approved elevations to residential development with with retail unit (Reg. Ref. F98A/0201) at The Harp Inn, North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin. Kinane Developments Ltd, 2 Prospect Court, Prospect Avenue, Glasnevin, Dublin 9, for revisions to approved site nos. 92 and 93 incorporating Amended boundaries, relocation of house no. 93 and additional garages to both the minor revisions to road access at Beverton Lawn, Turvey Avenue, Donabate, Co. Dublin. M. Burke , 6 Brookdale Close, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension to side at 6 Brookdale Close, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin. Frances & John Thompson, 181 Broadmeadow, Swords, Co. Dublin, for change of front elevation at 181 Broadmeadows, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Dennis Mulhall, 98 Grace O'Malley Road, Dublin 13, for single storey kitchen/dining extension to side of house at 98 Grace O'Malley Road, Dublin 13. Michael McCabe, 11 Melesian Court, Feltrim Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, to construct a first floor extension above the existing kitchen and family room incorporating 2 bedrooms and changing an existing bedroom to a bathroom at 11 Melesian Court, Feltrim Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. L. Adams, 15 Castle Cove, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for bedroom extension over existing garage converted to playroom to side gable at 15 Castle Cove, Malahide, Co. Dublin. P. Hughes, 18 Moyclare Close, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, to build a bay window and porch to the front at 18 Moyclare Close, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin. Rhonda Jones, Flemington Lane, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for retention of attic conversion with 4 no. roof lights to rear and window to gable side elevation to dwelling at Flemington Lane, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. David & Mary Brown, 24 Sutton Downs, Dublin 13, for proposed new first floor extension to the side of house, extend existing sunroom at rear of house and alterations to rear of house and alterations to existing front porch roof at 24 Sutton Downs, Dublin 13. N. Whelan, Old Barrack Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for alterations and first floor dormer extension to house to include granny flat at Old Barrack Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. B. Murphy, Sundrive Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for retention of stonework and brick finish to front elevation of dormer dwelling at Sundrive Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Andrew and Ruth Haire, 3 Waterside Crescent, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for conversion of garage to extended kitchen and utility area and extended front to accommodate new toilet with main entrance moved from the side and now located to the front at 3 Waterside Crescent, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. G. & P. Rogan, 33 Offington Lawn, Sutton, Dublin 13, for single storey extension to side and rear, accommodation to include 2 no. bathrooms ensuite, walk-in wardrobe, and dressing room at 33 Offington Lawn, Sutton, Dublin 13. Mr. & Mrs. E. Chow, Cill Mhuire, Thormanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for new driveway entrance, garden shed and conservatory at rear, dormer and two storey extension to front, side & rear at Cill Mhuire, Thormanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Amanda Doherty & David Nangle, 38 St. Nessan's Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension at the rear at split level to existing, and new entrance and revised fenestration at 38 St. Nessan's Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin. D. O'Keeffe, 21 Rivervalley Grove, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey domestic extension to the front and side and ancillary work at 21 Rivervalley Grove, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. O'Reilly, 4 Strand Road, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for construction of porch with hipped roof to front at 4 Strand Road, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. Mr. F. Russell, 10 Braemore, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and garage at rear with vehicular access off Skerries Road, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin at Skerries Road, Skerries, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin.  Requests for CLARIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications: Ms. Lorraine Lowndes, 31 St. Columba's Rise, Swords, Co. Dublin, to erect a 3 bedroom house at rear no. 31, St. Columba's Rise, Swords, Co. Dublin. Seamus Davis, Borranstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for new bungalow and septic tank. at Borranstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin. J. Kearney, Casana View, Howth, Co. Dublin, for approval for dormer bungalow and garage at Casana View, Howth, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. O'Brien Godfrey, 232 Mellifont Park, Drogheda, Co. Louth, for dormer bungalow with septic tank and puraflo waste water treatment system at Tobergreen, Garristown, Co. Dublin.  Requests for ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications: St. Sylvesters G.A.A. Club, 2 Church Road, Malahide, Co.Dublin, for playing pitch with terracing, fencing, floodlighting, training pitch, single storey changing pavillion, carparking for 80 cars, clus sign and games scoreboard. at Bloomfield, The Hill, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Station Construction, Connasbeth, Fairyhouse Road, Dunboyne, Co. Meath, for erection of four 2 storey dwellings, incorporating revisions to site nos. 48, 49 and 50, under previously approved development reg. ref. F99A/0966 at Mooretown, Rathbeale, Swords, Co. Dublin. Provost Fellows & Scholars, University of Dublin, Trinity College, Dublin 2, to erect a 2.4 m high security palisade fence with access gates to the rear of the Book Store and Pavillion and along 2 sides of the new hockey pitch. Demolition of the existing entrance piers and gates to the site off Santry Avenue and the construction of new piers and electronic gates. at Trinity Sports Grounds, Santry Avenue, Dublin 9. Mr. G. Ryan, Linn Beag, Rush, Co. Dublin, for bungalow to rear of residence at Linn Beag, Rush, Co. Dublin. Niall Carberry, Adamstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and proprietary wastewater treatment system with percolation/irrigation area and associated site works at Adamstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Mrs. Phil Brohoon, 48 Seapark, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission is sought for a detached two storey house of 154 sq.m. on the corner site of 48 Seapark at 48 Seapark, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Joseph Kane, 17 Highfield Lawns, Swords, Co. Dublin, for erection of front boundary wall to side garden at 17 Highfield Lawn, Swords, Co. Dublin. Gannon Homes Ltd., 41-43 Shelbourne Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4, for retention of garden walls at 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 The Park; 7 The Avenue, 17, 22 The Villa; 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 23, 24, 26, 28, 30 The Drive at Melrose Park, Swords, Co. Dublin. Peter O'Melia, 10 Ashfield Rise, Bremore, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for retention of single-storey structure to rear of existing dwelling at 10 Ashfield Rise, Bremore, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. D. & M. Campbell, 4 Craoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for side and rear two storey extension to two storey dwelling house at 4 Craoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to REFUSE EXTENSION OF DURATION OF PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications:- Helen Mannix, 43 Bayside Square West, Sutton, Dublin 13, for extension to rear and side of premises at 3 Bayside Square West, Sutton, Dublin 13.  Decisions to REFUSE OUTLINE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: W. Clarke, 49 Marian Park, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission for two storey dwelling at side at 49 Marian Park, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to REFUSE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: D. Nolan, 23 Forest Court, River Valley, Swords, Co. Dublin, to alter the house type at site 321, Road 17 of the approved development (under permission F98A/0290) at the housing development at lands accessed from the distibutor road at Glen Ellan, Jugback Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. J. D. Bell, Bremore, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to erect bungalow and domestic garage with connection to public services also new entrance at Bremore, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Joe & Suzanna Murray, 22 St. Colmcille Drive, Swords, Co. Dublin, for proposed new detached dormer bungalow at 'Mantua', Seatown Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mrs. S. Callan, 41 Meadowbrook Avenue, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for (1) build a 2 storey terraced house to the side; (2) provide vehicular parking double gateway access; (3) dish footpath to the front at 41 Meadowbrook Avenue, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. Paul Garland, 'The Village Laundry', Strand Street, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for proposed extension to rear, alterations to front to include 2 no. new shop fronts and 2 no. new apartments at first floor level at 'The Village Laundry' Strand Street Malahide Co. Dublin. Ben Lawn Construction, 18 Muckross Green, Perrystown, Dublin 12, for two storey four bedroom detached house and detached garage with off street parking for two vehicles adjoining no. 2 Beverton Grove at 2 Beverton Grove, Turvey Avenue, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Amanda Harper, 58 Chapelgate, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for construction of dormer bungalow at Cullenhill, Balrothery, Co. Dublin. Derek Owens, 36 Oak Grove, Royal Oak, Santry, Dublin 9, for 1st floor extension to side and conservatory to rear at 36 Oak Grove, Royal Oak, Santry, Dublin 9.  Decisions to GRANT PERMISSION AND REFUSE PERMISSION (SPLIT DECISION) were made in respect of the following applications:- Michael Collins Public House Ltd., Hagan Products, North Strand, Drogheda, for alterations and extensions to existing licenced premises to include the following: a. New basement level for ancillary storage.b. New single storey extensions to existing lounge areas at ground floor level; c. A change of use of first floor games room and living accommodation to restaurant use; d. Elevational alterations at Fingal Cave, 42 Church Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin.  Requests for Site Notice in accordance with Article 16 of the Local Government (Planning and Development) Regulations 1994 were made in respect of the following applications: John Russell, 25 Southbank, Swords, Co. Dublin, for outline permission for 2 bungalows with puraflo waste water treatment systems along with all associated site works at Damastown, The Naul, Co. Dublin.  Requests for TIME EXTENSIONS in accordance with Section 26(4a) of the Local Government (Planning & Development) Act, 1963 as amended by Section 39(f) of the Local Government (Planning and Development) Act, 1976 were submitted and accepted in respect of the following applications: Mrs. M. McGrane, Balscadden, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for single storey dwelling, septic tank and Puraflo waste water treatment plant and percolation area at Balscadden, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. P. Counihan, Newlawn, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for 3 no. dormer houses at Grange, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin.  The following applications were WITHDRAWN: J. & M. Hahesy, 2 Seabury Heights, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for alterations to existing dwelling house consisting of kitchen extension and provision of new first floor level throughout at 61 Yellow Walls Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin.  APPEALS NOTIFIED BY AN BORD PLEANALA DECISION GRANT PERMISSION: Agnew Bros. Ltd, Feltrim Shopping Centre, Drynam, Swords, Co. Dublin, for first floor extension comprising of 4 no. two bedroom apartments, 3 no. one bedroom apartments and a surgery ground floor extension comprising of new retail unit and access stairs to first floor, and change of use from existing ground floor retail unit to staircase and storage area. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: Malahide Marina Village, Malahide Marina Village, site adjacent to Block 6 Malahide, Marina Village, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 5 one and two bedroom apartments in a 4 storey apartment building, relocation of communal bin store, security office and bicycle park on site adjacent to Block 6 Malahide Marina Village. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: Gerry Hand & Eimear Shanahan, Dunora, Dunbo Hill, Howth, Co. Dublin, to rebuild roof to provide two new bedrooms and add new stairs incorporating utility room, wc and en-suite. DECISION GRANT OUTLINE PERMISSION: Naom Caitriona Teoranta, St. Catherine's National School, Rush, Co. Dublin., for multi purpose community centre.  DECISIONS OF AN BORD PLEANALA APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCIL’S DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: Shallon, New Park Road, The Ward, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Dormer bungalow, garage, septic tank and waste treatment system. APPLICANT: E. McCarthy APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCIL’S DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: 142 Ard na Mara, Malahide, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: erection of a bungalow and ancillary works.. APPLICANT: Mr. Trevor Smith 
