housing
{  
    April 06 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/council-gets-tough-over-social-housing-scheme-27425400.html }
Wexford County Council is bringing court prosecutions against six builders who are refusing to co-operate with a Government scheme whereby developers  are obliged to give houses, land or money to local authorities when building private housing schemes.The 'Part Five' scheme, as it is known, has been operating since 2001 but because of a backlog of previous planning permissions, Wexford County Council is bringing court prosecutions against six builders who are refusing to co-operate with a Government scheme whereby developers are obliged to give houses, land or money to local authorities when building private housing schemes. The 'Part Five' scheme, as it is known, has been operating since 2001 but because of a backlog of previous planning permissions, has only really become active in the last eighteen months. It has been working well in County Wexford, according to Director of Services, Kieran O'Brien, apart from the County Council's experience with a small minority of developers who are refusing to honour their obligations. 'There are a few people who think that they can ignore it and it will go away but I can tell them that it won't go away,' he said in reference to the six planned prosecutions. There are currently 67 development files with the County Council which come under the jurisdiction of Part Five but not all of them have been completed. Of the completed cases, eight have involved developers providing a financial contribution, three have resulted in land transfers to the local authority, four houses have been provided and six builders are being pursued under planning enforcement legislation over their unwillingness to co-operate. The remainder are still in negotiation and most of these involve recent planning applications for housing development. Contrary to the popular view that many builders are resisting the terms of the scheme and not playing their part, Mr. O'Brien says that most developers are co-operating as they are legally obliged to do. 'I have heard it said that they are not playing their part or that they just want to pay money and are not entering into the spirit of it. That is not true. The contribution, whether it takes the form of houses, money or land is worked out in agreement between us and them,' he said. The Part Five Scheme was first introduced in 2001 when the Council adopted a strategy agreeing to ask for the maximum 20 per cent of the cost of a private development as a claw-back towards the provision of social and affordable housing. 'The law said you could ask for up to 20 per cent. We decided it would be 20 per cent,' said the Director of Services. The Government reviewed the scheme in 2004 and clarified how local authorities and developers could come to agreement on the contribution. The new system provided three options - the developer could provide houses at a reduced price, land in lieu or a financial contribution equal to the price reduction. The contribution is only required in cases where planning permission is requested on land zoned for housing which mostly means urban areas around the county. Once planning permission is granted, there is an onus on the developer to enter into discussions with the local authority to provide one or other of the options. In the case of larger schemes, the amount involved whether in houses or cash in lieu can be substantial. In one recent case, the builder handed over ?600,000, representing 20 per cent of the overall cost of the development. Whether the Council agrees to take land, money or houses depends on the housing needs in a particular area, according to Mr. O'Brien. 'Our decision is based on the demand for housing is in that area. If someone was building houses in Coolcotts in Wexford, we wouldn't go for houses but we would take land. We are building 111 units in Coolcotts. But in other areas, for example like Kiltealy or Clohamon, we would be interested in taking the houses'. The Council is also interested in financial contributions to improve and upgrade the 3,500 rented local authority houses around the county. 'We have a planned maintenance programme that is going to cost between ?6 and ?10 million. Any money we can find for that will be welcome,' said the Director of Services. The Council is currently finalising long negotiations in relation to a housing development in Rosslare Harbour where it did not have land. The developer offered land and the Council has entered into a contract with the developer who will build a turn-key housing scheme in a joint venture. There is a serious problem in Wexford town where the Borough Council has not been able to build houses because of a shortage of land. Under a recent Part Five deal completion, the Council is getting four and a half acres of housing land from a developer free of charge which will enable it to provide housing. One of the principles aims of the scheme is social integration and a guard against an over-concentration of social housing in any one area but that is not really an issue in County Wexford which has a great tradition in housing and social services, according to Mr. O'Brien. One aspect which is becoming critical in Wexford, however, is the rising cost of houses which is making it difficult for young families to gain a foothold on the property ladder and increasing the demand for affordable housing provided by the Council. Recently, the Council built an affordable housing scheme in Castlebridge and a significant number of the purchasers were Wexford town residents. 'The affordability issue is getting more critical in Wexford. The demand for affordable housing is increasing,' he said. 'We're talking about people on two incomes who 20 years ago, would have got a loan from Wexford County Council to buy a house. Now we would be providing the loan and the house'. Overall, he believes the Part Five scheme is working well in County Wexford and as far as participating developers are concerned- 'those who have been fair and reasonable with us, we have been fair and reasonable with them,' said Mr. O' Brien. 
