housing
{  
    March 24 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/localnotes/planning-in-fingal-27783599.html }
FINGAL COUNTY COUNCILPLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 10/03/00P. Butterly &amp; D. Butterly, Upper Main Street, Rush, for alterations to FINGAL COUNTY COUNCIL PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 10/03/00 P. Butterly & D. Butterly, Upper Main Street, Rush, for alterations to already approved developments (Reg. Ref. nos. (F97A/1159 and F99A/0035) comprising (a) change of use of existing attic space over 6 no. two bedroom apartments to form 6 no. ensuite bedrooms, (b) change of layout of 6 no. two bedroom apartments to accommodate internal access stairs and study, (c) increase in height of escape stair enclosures (south elevation) to accommodate escape stairs to serve attic floor (d) new oriel window to south facing gable fronting onto Upper Main Street, Rush. Barry English, 31 Ridgewood, Swords, Co. Dublin, to construct a garage and carryout associated site works on site at 14 Auburn, Malahide, Co Dublin. Gannon Homes Limited, 41-43 Shelbourne Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4, for temporary two sided advertising board for proposed village development on lands north of Glen Ellan at lands north of Glen Ellan, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Patrick Fitzgerald, 94 Dublin Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, for construction of a new vehicular entrance from Dublin Road and driveway to front garden at 94 Dublin Road, Sutton, Dublin 13. Shirley Cowley, Dunsoghly, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for erection of bungalow and installation of biocycle unit at Dunsoghly, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. Mary Cowley, Dunsoghly, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for installation of biocycle unit to replace existing septic tank at Dunsoughly, St. Margaret's, Co. Dublin. Malachy & Louise O'Connor, 43 Offington Lawn, Sutton, Dublin 13, for approval for dormer bungalow and associated site works at Site C Casana View, Howth, Co. Dublin. John Andrews and Paul McNamee, Blackhall, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for demolition of existing house and outbuildings and construction of: 1. 11 no. 2 storey 3-bedroomed houses and 5 no. 2 storey, 2 bedroomed houses with access from Old Coach Road and 2. 1 no. 2 storey 4 bedroomed house and 1 no. single storey, 3 bedroomed house with access from the N1 at Old Coach Road, Balrothery, Co. Dublin. Mike and Brid Kearney, Apartment 4A, Hunter's Lane, Ashbourne, Co. Meath, for two storey dwelling, biocycle unit, and new entrance gates at Ballymadun Village, Ashbourne, Co. Meath. Margaret Monks, 24 Kelly's Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for change of house and garage type on already approved site (ref. F97A/0404) at Dublin Road, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Vincent and Rosaleen Flanagan, 12 Talbot Court, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey dwelling house with developed attic space and attached domestic garage at site no. 26 Abington, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Fr. Denis Delaney P.P., Rolestown, Swords, Co. Dublin, to erect a prefab classroom and develop a car-parking and turning area at Rolestown National School Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin. Noel Mansfield, 19 Northcliff Heights, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for conversion of an existing store to retail shop (local) unit and store at Holmpatrick Shopping Centre, Shenick Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin. A. Stuart, "Seacrest", South Shore Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for demolition of dwelling and replacement dormer bungalow at South Shore Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Seamus Davis, Borranstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for new bungalow and septic tank at Borranstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin. G. Callan, 11 Long Avenue, Dundalk, Co.Louth, for dormer bungalow comprising 5 no. bedrooms, living/dining room etc. and garage and new entrance at Kinsealy Lane, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. Maureen Carroll, 37 Hampton Cove, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for a. 28 no. 3 bedroom semi-detached two storey dwelling houses b. 8 no. two storey 4 bedroom detached dwelling houses. c. 7 no. two storey 2 bedroom terraced dwelling houses. d. 3 no. 3 bedroom detached bungalows e. 4 no. two storey blocks each of 8 no. 1 bedroom apartments. Making 78 units in total plus associated site works at Bremore Townland, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Colm O'Toole for bungalow at site at Malahide Road, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. O. Plunkett, 121 Gaybrook Lawns, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for house adjoining 121 Gaybrook Lawns at 121 Gaybrook Lawns, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Kenneth Langan, Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for construction of a four bedroomed dormer bungalow at Coast Road, Rogerstown, Co. Dublin. Austin Broderick, 36 Kenure Park, Rush, Co. Dublin, for construction of a four bedroomed bungalowsy Coast Road, Rogerstown, Co. Dublin. Shannon Homes (Dublin) Ltd., 532 North Circular Road, Dublin 7, for erection of 282 dwelling units and associated site development works on a site area of 72 acres including the construction of a new distributor road linking from a new cross roads junction located at Lucan Bridge at junction located at Lucan Bridge, Stanford Hill Road, Laraghcon, Lucan, Co. Dublin. J. Wade Developments Ltd., Castlelands, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for construction of 94 no. dwellings comprising of 1 no. detached dormer, 10 no. 4 bed 2 storey semi-detached, 56 no. 3 bed 2 storey semi detached and 27 no. 3 bed 2 storey terraced dwellings in 7 blocks and revisions to road and housing layout on already approved site (reg. ref. F98A/0060, housing development of 66 units) at Rosepark, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. J. Kearney, Casana View, Howth, Co. Dublin, for approval for dormer bungalow and garage at Casana View, Howth, Co. Dublin. Mr. Gerard Ryan, Linn Beag, Rush, Co. Dublin, for porch to front of residence at Linnbeag, Rush, Co. Dublin. Mr. and Mrs. Aiden Fitzmaurice, 16 St. Fintan's Crescent, Howth, Co. Dublin, for erection of a timber conservatory at 16 St. Fintans Crescent, Howth, Co. Dublin. C. Smith, 21 Seabury Glen, Malahide, Co. Dublin, to construct second storey extension to side at 21 Seabury Glen, Malahide, Co. Dublin. E. Montgomery, 26 Millhill Park, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension to side at 26 Millhill Park, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Mark & Moya O'Leary, 36 Shenick Avenue, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for roof alterations over existing extension from flat to pitched type at 36 Shenick Avenue, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Patrick Fitzgerald, 94 Dublin Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, for construction of a two storey pitched roof rear extension complete with internal modifications at 94 Dublin Road, Sutton, Dublin 13. Mr. & Mrs. Liam Giles, Seaview Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin, for variations to extension/alteration works carried out recently under planning permission F96B/0468 at The Bungalow, Seaview Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin. Mr. and Mrs. Shaw, 25 Seamount View, Malahide Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for second storey extension over existing extension to side plus single storey extension to side and rear of existing house at 25 Seamount View, Malahide Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. R. Doolan, 18 Birchdale Road, Kinsealy Court, Swords, Co. Dublin, for new front porch and two storey extension to side of house with t.v. room, dining and utility rooms, bedrooms en-suite and internal alterations at 18 Birchdale Road, Kinsealy Court, Swords, Co. Dublin. Bill and Maud Keogh, 127 Kelvin Close, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for retention for porch extension at 127 Kelvin Close, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. J. Kilduff, 55 Strand Road, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for front porch and rear conservatory to approved house F98A/0240 at side of rear 55 Strand Road, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. P. Ebbs, 10 Rathbeale Cottages, Rathbeale Road, Swords, Co.Dublin, for single storey rear extension at 10 Rathbeale Cottages, Rathbeale Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. B. Donohoe, 68 Dublin Road, Dublin 13, for dormer window and balcony at first floor level and alterations to roof at front at 68 Dublin Road, Dublin 13. Thomas Barrett, Palmer Lane, Kenure Park, Rush, for dwelling at Park Road, Rush M. Ferguson, Baldongan Road, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow and biocycle treatment plant at Ballykea, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Derek McLeod, Killeek Lane, The Ward, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow and biocycle waste water treatment plant at Killeek Lane, The Ward, Co. Dublin. Frank White, 70 Craoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for single storey building to be demolished and replaced with two storey extension to the side of existing dwelling. Single storey extension to the rear of existing dwelling and ground floor office. Removal of existing pedestrian entrance and pathway. Replacement of boundary hedge with wall of same height of brick and concrete balustrade including new vehicular access to dwelling site at 70 Craoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. A proposed brick face to ground floor from elevation. Alan Hartford, Traen Hill, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow with septic tank at Rathmooney, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Raya Investments Ltd., 808 Howth Road, Co. Dublin, for proposed 2 no. detached dwellings (2 storey with attic room) new boundary wall, entrance gates and site works at 101 Howth Road, Co. Dublin. Mr. F. Russell, 10 Braemore, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and garage at rear with vehicular access off Skerries Road, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin at Skerries Road, Skerries, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Curley, Tobergregan, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for bungalow dwelling, new biocycle effluent treatment system, new common entrance with revised site boundary lines together with ancillary works, the relocation and replacement of existing septic tank serving existing dwelling with a new biocycle at Tobergregan, Co. Dublin. V. Campbell, The Burrow, Portrane, Co. Dublin, for change of use of an existing residence to a creche facility, minor internal alterations, external elevational changes and formation of car parking area at “Casa-Mare", The Burrow, Portrane, Co. Dublin. Joan Cody, 47 Bayside Boulevard South, Sutton, Dublin 13, fro retention of existing wall to rear and side at 47 Bayside Boulevard South, Sutton, Dublin 13 J. Melinn, 28 Verbena Lawn, Dublin 13, to build a first floor bedroom and shower compartment over existing extension to side and rere and to extend front porch and build two bay windows with canopy at 28 Verbena Lawn, Dublin 13. LIST OF DECISIONS MADE FROM 06/03/2000 TO 10/03/2000 Decisions to GRANT PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Aer Rianta cpt, Dublin Airport, Co. Dublin, for retention of a ground level car park, adjacent to Swords Road at Stockhole, Co. Dublin. adjacent to Swords Road. Sam Dennigan & Co. Ltd, Palmerstown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for widening of storage packing and despatch building previously approved under Reg. Ref. No. F98A/0068, retention of existing canteen building and associated site development works at Palmerstown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Mr. David Daly, The Gables, Torquay Road, Foxrock, Dublin 18, for temporary information signage board at the pedestrian entrance to Airside Business Park at Airside Business Park, Crowcastle, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. David Daly, Torquay Road, Foxrock, Dublin 18, for temporary information signage board on entrance road to Airside Business Park adjacent to N1 motorway at Airside Business Park, Crowcastle, Swords, Co. Dublin. Christopher Renehan, 1A Newtown, Lissenhall, Swords, Co. Dublin, for construction of two storey extension to side and front of dwelling with single storey extension to rear and porch to front to include demolition of existing garage to side at 1A Newtown, Lissenhall, Swords, Co. Dublin. H. O'Brien, 68 Boulevard North, Bayside, Sutton, Co. Dublin 13, for single storey extension at 68 Boulevard North, Bayside, Sutton, Dublin 13. Mr. & Mrs. L. O'Reilly, 23 Seabury Place, Seabury, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey extension at rear at 23 Seabury Place, Seabury, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. M. Kenny, 39 Meadowbrook Avenue, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, to retain drydash finish to front and rear elevations at 39 Meadowbrook Avenue, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. S. Callan, 41 Meadowbrook Avenue, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, to retain drydash finish to front, side and rear elevations at 41 Meadowbrook Avenue, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. D. O'Toole, 56 Prospect View, Prospect Manor, Rathfarnham, Dublin 16, to construct single storey domestic garage (with utility and storage room) to the side at 8 The Park, Hollystown Demesne, townlands of Gallanstown and Yellow Walls, Dublin 15. Mr. Patrick Dillon, 23 Milford, Malahide, Co. Dublin, to convert attic space to living accommodation with the provision of 8 no. roof lights to existing roof and 1 no. window to rear. convert attic space to living accommodation with the provision of 8 no. roof lights to existing roof and 1 no. window to rear at 10 Carrickbrack Hill, Sutton, Dublin 13. Dr. N. Bunni, 42B Thormanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, to construction of a ground floor extension and the erection of a car port at an existing dwelling at 42B Thormanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Mr. Garret Buckley, 7 Roncalli Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, for single storey bedroom extension to the rear, retention of garage conversion, with ancillary roof lights to both at 7 Roncalli Road, Sutton, Dublin 13. J. & T. O'Byrne. Hoar Rock Hill, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for conservatory to rear of existing dwelling at: Hoar Rock Hill, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Kevin Battams, 2 Highfield Downs, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to side of existing house at 2 Highfield Downs, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. P. Brennan, 7 Seabury Glen, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for new first floor bedroom/bathroom extension over the existing family room and kitchen, roof light to the side, new sun room to the rear, alteration to hall door and internal alterations at 7 Seabury Glen, Malahide, Co. Dublin. M. Colreavy, 90 Carrick Court, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, forsingle storey pitched roof extension incorporating existing utility room and w.c. at rear at 90 Carrick Court, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. S. McCann, The Burrow, Portrane, Co. Dublin, for bungalow at The Burrow, Portrane, Donabate. K. McGuinness & J. Whitaker, The Mine Road, Loughshinny, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing cottage ruin and construct a dormer house with biocycle unit at The Mine Road, Loughshinny, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Swords Laboratories Ltd., Watery Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin, for construction of a new warehouse building and associated offices to replace an existing warehouse facility, together with external works comprising underground services, truck aprons and site landscaping at Watery Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin. Access to the site will be from the existing entrance on Watery Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin. Lamvale Construction Limited, 25 Merrion Square, Dublin 2, for 3 storey residential development comprising 64 no. 3 or 4 bedroom duplex dwellings over 64 no. garden level 2 bedroom apartments, semi basement car park and associated site works at Yellow Walls Townland, Swords Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. M. Thorne, Old Road, Rush, for parsnip washing and storage shed with staff facilities and waste treatment system at Ballykea, Loughshinny Ciara Lawless, Bellinstown, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, to construct a new two storey dormer dwelling house and biocycle waste water treatment unit on site at Bellinstown, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin. Mark and Louise Young, 33 The Warren, Swords Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for detached dwelling and retention of entrance at Streamstown, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Aer Rianta cpt, Dublin Airport, Co. Dublin, for for extension to the existing temporary Park & Ride car park at temporary Park & Ride Carpark, Dublin Airport, Harristown townland, Co. Dublin, adjacent to the South Parallel Road. Island Associates Limited, 14 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, for alterations to already approved development (reg. ref. F99A/0883) incorporating retention of existing service facilities (toilets etc.) to serve existing canteen and retention to existing mezzanine level to serve unit 5 and 6b at 5 and 6b Swords Business Campus, Balheary Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Island Associates Limited, 14 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, for alterations to already approved development (reg. ref. no. F99A/0502) incorporating retention of new entrance /foyer and partial change of use from warehouse to office use at unit 1 at Unit 1 at Swords Business Campus, Balheary Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Requests for CLARIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications:- Thomas G. McGrath, Woodview, Church Avenue, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, to to erect a detached dormer dwelling to include entrance gates and front walling at St. Declans', Church Avenue, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. R. Maguire, Wyestown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow and treatment unit at Wyestown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Decisions to REFUSE OUTLINE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: P. Ellis, Balbriggan Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for farm and dwelling with biological sewage unit at Barnageeragh, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Mr. N. McMahon, Hazelhatch, Thornmanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission for a bungalow dwelling at Hazelhatch, Thornmanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Decisions to REFUSE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications:- Mr. Kevin Reid, 12 Valleyview, Brackenstown, Swords, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey extension and garage to side at 12 Valley View, Brackenstown, Swords, Co. Dublin. James & Ciara Kane, Baldwinstown, Garristown North, Co. Dublin, for dormer dwelling, garage and entrance at Baldwinstown, Garristown North, Co. Dublin. Joan and Patricia Smyth, 56 Shenick Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, to build a two storey dwelling at 56 Shenick Road (at entrance to downside - Phase 2) Skerries, Co. Dublin. Terri Morrissey & Ciaran Byrne, Seafield House, Skerries Road, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to erect a two storey extension comprising study, bedroom and toilet facilities to existing dwelling at Seafield House, Skerries Road, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Raymond Sutton, The Fox Inn, Ballymadun, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for single storey dwelling and biocycle treatment plant at Borranstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Requests for Site Notice in accordance with Article 16 of the Local Government (Planning and Development) Regulations 1994 were made in respect of the following applications:- P.T. Developments, 1 Bancroft Down, Bancroft, Dublin 24, for four bedroom bungalow with site walls, car parking, paving and site works on site with vehicular access at site at rear of 17 Sandy Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Patrick Hickey, Inch, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for conversion of attic space into habitable dormer rooms at Inch, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. K. Connellan, Claddagh House, Posie Row, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin, for change of use from B&B to Guest House at Claddagh House, Posie Row, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. Island Associates, 14 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, for proposed change of use of part of light industrial/office use to call centre/direct marketing facility/data processing/information technology/software development/science and technology/research and development/office units, incorporating a new mezzanine level, toilets, roof lights, new entrance foyer, alterations to facade and associated site works to unit at Unit 3 Swords Business Campus, Balheary Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Island Associates Limited, 14 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, for proposed change of use of part of light industrial/office use to call centre/direct marketing facility/fulfilment services facility/data processing/information technology/software development/science and technology/research and development/office units, incorporating new toilets, roof lights, new entrance foyer, alterations to facade and associated site works to unit 4 at Unit 4 Swords Business Campus, Balheary Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. APPEALS NOTIFIED BY AN BORD PLEANALA DECISION/ GRANT PERMISSION: Oisin O'Buachalla, east of "Inisglora", The Hoar Rock, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for demolition of a single storey derelict cottage and domestic shed; and for the construction of a single dwelling house at ground, first and attic floor levels, ancillary domestic garage at ground level only and new boundary walls at site. DECISION/ GRANT PERMISSION: S. Carr, "Riarkeeven", 31 Strand Road, Sutton, Co. Dublin, for extension to side of the dwelling house, the conversion and extension of existing mews at the rear of "Riarkeeven" to dwelling house, the construction of 15 no. apartments and 3 no. townhouses, including all ancillary site works. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: R. Hackett & S. Moore Rathartan, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and biocycle unit. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: C. Fynes South Shore, Rush, Co. Dublin, for demolition of two dwellings and for two bungalows. CONDITION GRANT PERMISSION: Ruth Guerin, 58 Portmarnock Drive, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for garage conversion to family room and attic conversion to study/storage room, incorporating new dormer roof to the side and 2 velux windows to front. DECISIONS OF AN BORD PLEANALA APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission COUNCILS DECISION GRANT PERMISSION LOCATION: lands at Turnapin Great, Swords Road (Old Airport Road), Santry, Co. Dublin PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: an at-grade car park with 3,500 car parking spaces, together with associated entry/exit control facilities, bus shelters, hardstanding for service vehicles, biocycle waste water treatment, demolition of one existing habitable dwelling and change of use of second habitable dwelling to use as a control building and for staff facilities. Access to the carpark is from the Swords Road (Old Airport Road) and includes a new signal controlled junction with turning lanes and new directional signs APPLICANT: Gannon Homes Ltd. APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: 1 & 2 Eden Terrace, Lr. Main Street, Rush PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Permission for 1, 3 bedroom house and 2 no. 1 bedroom apartments in lieu of 2 no. obsolete houses to be demolished. APPLICANT: P. Jones APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: St. Joseph's, Coast Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Proposed storage unit/facility. APPLICANT: James Kavanagh APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: Treborth West, site no. 14, Claremont Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: 2 storey over basement house attached to the side of the existing house known as Treborth West, and other ancillary works including provision of new entrance gates to front. APPLICANT: J. & C. Spain, APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: The Ward Golf Driving Range, Broghan, Newbridge, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Retain demonstration sample conservatory and its use to promote its sales. APPLICANT: Loclann and Joan Aiken APPEAL DECISION: Application Withdrawn COUNCILS DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: Rath, Stamullen, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: build an extension to the side and rear of an existing house. APPLICANT: Vincent and Margaret Monaghan 
