housing
{  
    April 06 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/localnotes/planning-in-fingal-27783859.html }
FINGAL COUNTY COUNCILPLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 24/03/00Dr. &amp; Mrs. M. Cox, 31 Rathbeale Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for new...  FINGAL COUNTY COUNCIL PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 24/03/00 Dr. & Mrs. M. Cox, 31 Rathbeale Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for new pitched hipped roof incorporating 2 new velux windows over existing surgery at 31 Rathbeale Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. P.T. Developments, 1 Bancroft Down, Bancroft, Dublin 24, for four bedroom bungalow with site walls, car parking, paving and site works on site with vehicular access Site at rear of 17 Sandy Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Mr. J. Carthy, 31 Baskin Cottages, Cloghran, Co. Dublin, for 2 no. 3 bed semi detached dormer bungalows, landscaping and associated works at the rear at 31 Baskin Cottages, Cloghran, Co. Dublin. Ace Developments, The Square, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for two townhouses and one duplex apartment at Balbriggan Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin. A. Duncan, 7 Balbriggan Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for approval for the demolition of existing buildings and the development for three houses at 7 Balbriggan Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Eamon P. Daly, 23/26 Lower Dorset Street, Dublin 1, for erection of 14 no. two storey dwellings and 28 duplex apartments at Ballough, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Movie Magic, Unit 2A Swords Business Park, Swords, Co. Dublin, for retention of internal alterations including provision of mezzanine at Unit 2(a) Swords Business Park, Swords, Co. Dublin. Lynn Fagan, Kilmore House, Kilshane, Finglas, Dublin 11, for revised bungalow type, garage bio-filter unit and entrance, on approved site at Baylene Kilshane, Finglas, Dublin 11. P. Butterly, Upper Main Street, Rush, Co. Dublin, for new shed for storage of coal delivery trucks and farm machinery at existing coal yard/farm yard at Upper Main Street, Rush, Co. Dublin. Bidford Holdings Ltd., c/o Glebe House, Jugback Lane, Broadmeadows, Swords, for 40 no. units in 2 no. 3 storey blocks consisting of 20 no. 2 bed duplex units over 20 no. 1 bed apartments, with 51 car spaces, new boundary treatment and associated landscaping on a site and including demolition of existing Glebe House and revised entrance from Jugback Lane, Co. Dublin at Glebe House, Jugback Lane, Broadmeadow, Swords, Co. Dublin. Peninsula Building Services, 1 Island View House, Harbour Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for part demolition of existing single storey extensions to the side of the existing house, the conversion of the existing two storey houses to 2 no. 2 bedroom apartments and the erection of 4 no. 3 bedroom apartments in a two storey extension at the western side and 1 no. 2 bedroom apartment in a single storey extension at the eastern side of the existing house, and associated works at "Brooklawn", Dungriffan Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. E. Jones, Lower Main Street, Rush, Co. Dublin, for 8 semi-detached dormer bungalows and 1 detached two storey house at Bawn Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. J. Kelly & Sons Ltd., Hand Park, Rush, Co. Dublin, for 2 semi detached houses on a site at south side at 28 St. Catherine's Drive, Rush, Co. Dublin. M. Hallinan, 6 Seabury Court, Malahide, Co. Dublin, to relocate previously approved bungalow (reg. ref. F99A/1421) at Richardstown, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin. Mr. Thomas McCourt, Stamullen, Co. Dublin, for approval to erect dormer bungalow with proprietary small sewage treatment plant, also 30 horse stables, and hay barn, and using existing entrance to public road at Stamullen, Co. Dublin. Owen Dennis, Pine Lodge, The Summit, Howth, Co. Dublin, for erection of single storey swimming pool extension to rear of existing dwelling at Pine Lodge, The Summit, Howth, Co. Dublin. Peter Lennon, Riverdale, Lissenhall, Co. Dublin, to retain mezzanine offices, and ancillary entrance door and first floor window at Lissenhall Industrial Estate, Lissenhall, Swords, Co. Dublin. Precision Construction Unit, Airport Business Park, Swords Road, Co Dublin, for 7 dormer bungalows with biocycle treatment plant, at Loughshinny, Co. Dublin. M. Hynes, 52 Island View, Malahide, Co.Dublin, for single storey play school extension to rear at 52 Island View, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Ms. Edwina Keely, 1 Rathbeale Cottages, Swords, Co. Dublin, for 1 storey split level bungalow at side at 1 Rathbeale Cottages, Rathbeale Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Murrays Europcar Ltd., Baggot Street Bridge, Dublin 4, for temporary development on a 1.2 hectare site consisting of car parking, pre-fabricated office unit, biocycle waste water treatment system, fencing and security lighting together with permanent brick pier and railing boundary at Turnapin Great, Swords Road, Cloghran, Co. Dublin. Liam & Geraldine Foy, 6 Seamount Drive, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 2 bedroomed granny flat to the rear at 6 Seamount Drive, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Malcolm & Joanne Lewis, The Coach House, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for change of use of existing stable and stores to form new apartment at The Coach House, Grallagh Road, Garristown, Co. Dublin. John Kingston, Quay Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for construction of 3 no. townhouse, demolition of existing buildings to include one habitable dwelling, workshops and storage facilities, provision of new boundary walls including vehicular access gates boundary fences, and associated building works at Quay Street, Skerries, Co.Dublin. Mr. Killian Nolan & Ms. Barbara Keating, 3 Ross Cottage, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for extension to the rear of existing cottage at Kinsealy Cottage, (opp. Baskin Lane), Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. M. Harper, "Middlefield", Strand Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, for 2 storey extension to side at side of "Middlefield", Strand Road, Sutton, Dublin 13. Mr. V. McDonald, 37 Seatown Villas, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to rear at 37 Seatown Villas, Swords, Co. Dublin. Brendan Ryan, 225 Ashley Rise, Martello, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for conversion and extension of garage to living area (single storey) at 225 Ashley Rise, Martello, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Martin & Miriam Moore, Jordanstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for permission for domestic garage/domestic store at Jordanstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Stapleton, 12 Churchfield Close, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for conversion of part of existing garage to a special needs bathroom at 12 Churchfield Close, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Denis Palmer, 7 Castledown Croft, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for first floor side extension bedroom, bathroom and alterations at 7 Castledownes Croft, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Brian Harris, 28 Carrickhill Rise, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to front with pitched roof and garage conversion at 28 Carrickhill Rise, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Denis Moloney, 30 Carrickhill Rise, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to front with pitched roof at 30 Carrickhill Rise, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. A. Farnan, An Teach Ban, Lispopple, Swords, Co. Dublin, for conservatory at side and extension at rear at An Teach Ban, Lispopple, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. D. West, "Bracken Lodge", 2 Yellow Walls Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for retention of alterations and extensions comprising; (a) conversion of garage to living/dining area; (b) extension of new living/dining to rere; (c) extension of first floor above living/dining area to accommodate new bathroom/dressing room to serve existing master bedroom; (d) alterations to south/west, south/east and north/east elevations; (e) new chimney stack at "Bracken Lodge", 2 Yellow Walls Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Sean & Marie Waldron, 12 Warren Green, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to rear at 12 Warren Green, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. Mr. John Lynch, 49 Evora Crescent, Howth, Co. Dublin, for double and single storey bedroom, bathroom, kitchen and sunroom extension to the rear at 49 Evora Crescent, Howth, Co. Dublin. James O'Daly, 17 Longlands, Swords, Co. Dublin, for (1) retention of ground floor bathroom and kitchen/dining room and (2) proposed study over ground floor bathroom at rear at 17 Longlands, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. Colm Coleman, 3 Pacelli Avenue, Dublin 13, for internal alterations, construct a single storey extension to the rear, extend the existing roof incorporating dormer windows to the front, rear and side at 3 Pacelli Avenue, Dublin 13. A. & L. O'Connor, 195 Ardilaun, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for retention of roof over porch and garage; new garage roof and single storey rear extension at 195 Ardilaun, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Kevin & Ilse O'Keefe, Slieve Donard, 12 Harbour Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for conversion of existing roof space into utility area and and for minor modifications to front and rear elevations at 12 Harbour Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Paul Laycock, Seafield Cottage, Kilcrea, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey extension to the rear at Seafield Cottage, Kilcrea, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Eoin & Imelda Griffin, The Olde House, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for carry out extension and alterations to dwelling house at Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Mrs. D. Costello, "Robins Nest", Windgate Road, Howth, Dublin 13, for biocycle waste water treatment system at "Ardan", Windgate Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. R. Maguire, Wyestown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow and treatment unit at Wyestown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Sec. on behalf of Trust. Rush Golf Club, Rush, Co. Dublin, for new course maintenance building at Rush Golf Club, Rush, Co. Dublin. APPLICANT: Terry & Jackie Moore, 5 Longlands, Swords, Co. Dublin, for proposed refurbishment work, extension to side and rear of existing dwelling, proposed septic tank and percolation area at Hewhaggard, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Leo Fynes, Ballaghstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for 20 pitch touring caravan and camper van park (opening times April to September inclusive), reception building, associated car parking and access road and Envirocare Biodics foul treatment system behind the residence at Ballaghstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to GRANT PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Thomas Quearney, Agapanthus, Newtown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for detached bungalow with biocycle waste water treatment unit at Agapanthus, Newtown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Derek Dignam, 15 Highfield Crescent, Highfields, Swords, Co. Dublin, for additional road access to the front of 15 Highfield Crescent at 15 Highfield Crescent, Highfields, Swords, Co. Dublin. Emily Halpin, 'Finger Post', Malahide Road, Feltrim, Kinsealy, Co.Dublin, for dormer bungalow (area 232 sq.m., height 8.4 m) at site beside 'Finger Post', Malahide Road, Feltrim, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. P. & E. Condron, 43 Rivervalley Drive, Swords, Co. Dublin, for extension at first floor level over existing study and utility area to form new bedroom at 43 Rivervalley Drive, Swords, Co. Dublin. Patrick Kinsella, 45 Tara Court, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for house extension (living room) and porch canopy at 45 Tara Court, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. L. Austin, Kenure Park, Rush, Co. Dublin, for dormer dwelling at South Shore Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. C. Jones, Hollywood Road, The Tooman, Lusk, Co. Dublin, to erect a new bungalow and install septic tank and percolation area at The Tooman, Lusk, Co. Dublin. A. & M. Harmon, 13 Kingshill, Duleek, Co. Meath, for dormer bungalow at South Shore Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Steve Webster, 39 Seaview Park, Portrane, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey house to include a single storey granny flat to the right side at Beaverstown Road, Donabate, Co. Dublin. C. Duff, Meadow View, Posey Lane, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and puraflo W.W.T.S. plus associate works on site at Posey Lane, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. D. Brennan, The Burrow, Portrane, Co. Dublin, for erect a dormer bungalow, new entrance and boundary walls at The Burrow, Portrane, Co. Dublin. Nicky and Betty Rooney, 113 Orlynn Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for erection of agricultural dwelling, "Granny Flat, farm sheds, garage and yard, and provision of septic tank and percolation area at Oberstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin. E. Blaney, 71 Offington Park, Sutton, Co. Dublin, for single storey granny flat extension at 71 Offington Park, Sutton, Co. Dublin. P. Keane, 6 St. Patrick's Terrace, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for detached bungalow to side at 6 St. Patrick's Terrace, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Mr. Liam O'Grady, Ward House, The Ward, Co. Dublin, change of site layout and repositioning of chimney to the opposite side of the house as per the original planning permission received in February 1999 at The Ward, Co. Dublin.  Requests for ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications: Banbervale Ltd., Mornington Park, Malahide Road, Artane, Dublin 5, for demolition of existing lounge, provision of cellar, erection of single and two storey lounge, and alteration of public bar frontage at The Big Tree Public House, North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin. Liz Anne Moore, Ashpark, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for bungalow detached garage biocycle unit percolation area and associated ground works at back road upper commons at Upper Commons, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Seamus Gilhooly, 155 Briar Walk, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for proposed new two storey detached house, new driveway, entrance piers and gates, new pedestrian access gate to side at 155 Briar Walk, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin.  Requests for ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications:- Humbolt Ltd., 1 Stokes Place, Dublin 2, for development comprising approx. 17,636 sq. m. enterprise and employment floor space for office use including the handling and processing of information, research and development of products, and science and technology based processes; all in seven buildings ranging in height from three to four storeys: 678 car parking spaces including 14 spaces for mobility impaired persons; 56 parking spaces for motorcycles and 126 bicycle spaces: bus lay-by; site development and landscape works; all on a site of some 2.1 hectares at Swords Business Park, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. Vincent Thorne, Sandy Lane, Rush, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow at Sandy Lane, Rush, Co. Dublin. P. Keane, Cloughmore, North Strand, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for retention for use of existing annex to house as separate dwelling at Cloughmore, North Strand, Skerries, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to REFUSE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: ESAT Digifone, 76 Lower Baggot Street, Dublin 2, for 21 m high monopole to carry GSM antennas, equipment cabin and security fencing at the E.S.B. Substation, as part of Digifone's mobile telecommunications network at E.S.B. Substation, Glasmore, Swords, Co. Dublin. Gerry Sweeney, Forest House, Forest Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for extension to side of existing house to form office area at ground floor level and additional bedrooms at first floor level at Forest House, Forest Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. J. Hannon, Rockfield House, St. Fintans Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, for split level dwelling house with adjoining domestic garage and new entrance onto public road to site at site at Windgate Rise (West of no. 2 New Road), Howth, Dublin 13. Mr. Desmond O'Connor (jnr.), 105 Jamestown Road, Finglas East, Dublin 11, for dormer bungalow, garage with biocycle treatment plant, percolation area and associate works at Kilreesk, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. P. Galbraith, 6A The Square, Skerries, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing dwelling and construct new two storey dwelling at 6A The Square, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Mr. Rory O'Sullivan, "Feenagh", St. Margarets Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, to convert, alter and extend an existing structure abutting the gable of no. 1 Killeen Terrace which is a listed building, into a 2 storey residence with access from St. Margaret's Road at No. 1 Killeen Terrace, St. Margaret's Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Harry Flanagan, 71 Royal Oak Avenue, Santry, Dublin 9, for two storey extension at side and single storey at rear at 71 Royal Oak Avenue, Santry, Dublin 9.  Requests for Site Notice: Mr. Christy Dowler, 5 Hilltown Green, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin, for erection of new 2 storey 3 bedroom detached house to side and new vehicular entrance to front at 13 Hilltown Lawn, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin. Martina Weldon, 48 Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for erection of a 4 bedroom, two storey house at rear of 48 Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin Mr. Louis Ruane, 141 Lower Drumcondra Rd., Dublin 9, for renovations and alterations - to extend car parking to front together with replacement windows and new entrance porch and signage, new fencing to front and side, together with new loading bay and door, relocation of oil tank and fire exit and ramp, together with new concrete apron to grass verge at side at Unit 15, Viscount Ave., Airways Industrial Estate, Santry, Dublin 9. R & C Dwyer, Skephubble, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for attic conversion to storage to single storey creche ancillary extension to existing house at Skephubble, St. Margarets, Co.Dublin.  Requests for TIME EXTENSIONS: Eastern Health Board, Dr. Steeven's Hospital, Steeven's Lane, Dublin 8, for change of use of dwelling house to high support hostel and to replace existing septic tank with a Biodisc waste Water Treatment System at Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Sean & Chris Murray, 14 Grove Lawn, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for proposed new entrance porch, new balcony to rear to first floor level, renovation to existing attic space, reduction in size of garage, incorporating new pitched roof at rear at 14 Grove Lawn, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Rayband Ltd., Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin, for for an industrial development of fifteen industrial units, road infrastructure including a roundabout on the N1 providing an industrial access to the east, and agricultural access to the west. Services including foul sewer pumping stations and appropriate enabling works. The industrial units comprise:- Type A B1 unit of 2,217.6 sq. metres, types B and C B1 units of 1,425.6 sq. metres each, types D and E of 2,138.4 sq. metres each, types F, G, H, J, M, and N of 1,110 sq. metres each, types K and L of 960 sq. metres each, type P of 1,560 sq. metres type Q of 7,160 sq. metres at Lissenhall, Co. Dublin  The following applications were WITHDRAWN: Reg.Ref. Decision Date Dermot O'Brien, Drynam Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin, dormer bungalow, garage, new entrance and biocycle treatment plant at Streamstown, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Ms. Mary O'Brien, 26 Highfield Crescent, Swords, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow, garage, new entrance and biocycle treatment plant at Streamstown, Malahide, Co. Dublin.  APPEALS NOTIFIED BY AN BORD PLEANALA SPLIT GRANT PERMISSION & REFUSE PERMISSION: Tom Duffy & Co., Beaverstown, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for extension to food factory and retention of existing gate.  DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: Fiona Wong, Mandarin Restaurant, Corballis Road, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for apartment at first floor level over existing single storey building at Mandarin Restaurant.  DECISIONS OF AN BORD PLEANÁLA APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission COUNCILS DECISION: GRANT PERMISSION LOCATION: Santry Demesne, Dublin 9 bounded by the Swords Road to the east, Santry Avenue to the south, Old Ballymun Road to the west and the Civil Service Sports Grounds to the north. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: an integrated urban development project consisting of an apartments complex and associated amenity building, an offices complex, a Hotel, an extensive public park and all site development works, including ESB substations and security kiosks, infrastructural services and outfall sewers including surface water attenuation. The site has an area of 170 acres. There will be three access points to the development at Swords Road approximately 225m north of Santry Stadium at Santry Avenue approximately 93m west of Trinity Playing fields and at Old Ballymun Road opposite existing link to Ballymun Dual Carriageway. The road network will include an internal distributor road with a bridge over the Santry River plus footpaths and cycleways. The apartments complex will consist of 1, 2 and 3 bedroom units arranged in 3 No. areas; 75 No. units in 2 No. blocks 4 and 6 storeys high located north of Santry River adjacent to the proposed hotel; 661 units in 15 No. blocks 4, 5 and 6 storeys high located at Bullock Hill to the north of the site; 364 No. units in 9 No. blocks 5 and 6 stories high to the west of the site immediately north of Trinity Playing Fields south of Santry River. Development to include an amenity block of approximately 4200 sq.m. accommodating leisure and neighbourhood facilities plus creche. The developments to also include all internal roads surface and underground car parking, all associated site works and landscaping. The offices complex will consist of a campus type park located to the west of the site north of Santry Avenue consisting of 28 No. 3, 4 and 5 storey blocks totalling approximately 76,250 sq.m. arranged in 5 No. clusters with 2 No. 5 level multi-storey car parks accommodating approximately 1000 cars plus internal roads and associated surface car parks including site development works landscaping and restoration of Black Wood. There will also be 2 No. 3 storey blocks totalling approximately 3200 sq.m. located north of the existing lake immediately west of Swords Road. The hotel building will consist of an 198 bedroom hotel of approximately 14500 sq.m. with conference facilities for approximately 270 persons, leisure facilities and associated ancillary and service area in a 6 storey high block including ground floor mezzanine located north of Santry River west of the Swords Road entrance. The development to include surface car parking & site development works & landscaping. Also included in the development is a public park of approximately 72 acres in the Southeast area of the site with a car park, toilets, Rangers office, timber footbridge and shelter pavilion, new extensive tree planting and landscaping works. There will also be a linear park approximately 9A along Santry River.  APPLICANT: Woodford Developments Ltd. APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission COUNCILS DECISION: GRANT PERMISSION LOCATION: on lands at Santry Demesne, Dublin 9 bounded by Swords Road, Santry Avenue and Old Ballymun Road PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: consent to cut down 57 No. trees included in the Dublin County Council Tree Preservation (Santry Demesne) Order 1987, to facilitate a proposed development which is the subject of a separate planning application to Fingal County Council (Register Reference No F98A/1328).  APPLICANT: Woodford Developments Ltd. APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: Estuary Road, Seatown, Swords, Co. Dublin PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: to construct a bungalow and septic tank/puraflo effluent treatment system  APPLICANT: Ciaran Caraher APPEAL DECISION: Grant Outline Permission COUNCILS DECISION: GRANT OUTLINE PERMISSION LOCATION: 169 Seapark, Malahide, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: detached two storey house of 174.8 sq.m. on the corner site. APPLICANT: Mr. Peter McElroy 
