housing
{  
    July 21 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/locals-say-council-houses-have-destroyed-ballyferriter-27367409.html }
Some residents of Ballyferriter, and the surrounding area, are angry over a new local authority housing scheme which is under construction in the village. The residents say that they had no idea that some of the houses would be so prominent, and that their location has destroyed the visual aspect of the village. The county council is constructing 19 houses, on a roadside si Some residents of Ballyferriter, and the surrounding area, are angry over a new local authority housing scheme which is under construction in the village. The residents say that they had no idea that some of the houses would be so prominent, and that their location has destroyed the visual aspect of the village. The county council is constructing 19 houses, on a roadside site, at the northern end of the village. The houses are both single and two-storey. The two-storey houses will almost completely block the view from the northern approach road of the landmark church building. Local resident Siobhán Fahy’s two-storey house is directly opposite the new scheme and she is dismayed by the development. “I have no objection to people getting houses in the village. But we had no idea these houses would be so big. I have kept visitors for years and one of the main attractions for them, in staying with me, was the wonderful view from the bedrooms. But that view is gone forever now,” she told 
The Kerryman on Monday. “Why didn’t they put the two-storey houses in the lower part of the site, at the back, where the single storey houses are being built? And the houses are right on the roadside too, instead of being kept back a bit. “We asked our local councillors about it but they weren’t able to do anything. Why couldn’t the council have built a nice little estate like the one in Máimín, behind the church? I think they’ve destroyed the village,” she stated. Another local resident, who asked not to be named, told 
The Kerryman that the project was a “shameful” development and not in keeping with the vernacular architecture of the village. This resident wondered why another housing development, proposed for the outskirts of the village, is now on hold because of concerns that purchasers will not be Irish language speakers. The resident, a native Irish speaker,said that they believe it is discriminatory to require potential purchasers to be Irish speakers. The Kerryman asked local Fine Gael councillor Séamus Cosaí Fitzgerald about both developments. He said that some people in the village were unhappy about the local authority development but, as far as he was aware, there were no objections to the project. He said the two-storey houses were in keeping with the line of the village street. Asked if the residents of these houses would be required to speak Irish, the councillor said that such a condition could not apply to local authority housing. “While the council respects the views of people in relation to Irish they could not build houses for people on the basis of Irish language alone.Philip O’Sullivan, the council’s Director of Housing, said that such a condition would be seen to be against the Dept of Environment’s criteria for social housing. Local authority houses are built for people who need houses,” he said. “The council must be seen to be open and fair to everyone who’s on the housing list. It may well be that those houses will mainly go to Irish speakers anyway,” the councillor said. “Some people have said to me that they’re a bit suspicious about this thing of inserting a clause about Irish being part of a condition to get planning permission for housing developments in the Gaeltacht area. They told me that they have come to live in the area, without having a word of Irish, and now their children have Irish,” he said. “To be hanging the loss of the Irish language on the development of houses might be going a bit too far. People can’t blame the deterioration of Irish on the building of houses. There are a lot of other factors as well, which are causing fewer people to speak Irish. “The language is under pressure from availability of non-Irish TV channels. Gaeltacht children are socialising more with children from non-Gaeltacht areas because they have easier travel and attend functions in places like Dingle where English is the dominant language,” Cllr Fitzgerald said. “In relation to the other housing development, which is on hold because of the Irish language issue, the developer has told me, and I think he has also told the council, that he has no problem in accepting a condition about the Irish language,” he said. “There is no objection to the development as such but people have expressed a view to the council that the planning office should take on board the potential impact of that development on the language. But the developer has said that he will have no difficulty in selling those houses to Irish speakers,” he said.Western (Latin1)Western (Latin1) 
