housing
{ Myles BUCHANAN 
    June 17 2010 02:14 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/localnotes/crisis-meeting-called-as-2500-on-housing-list-27854441.html }
CLAIMS THAT Wicklow is in the midst of a serious housing crisis with 2,500 people on the county council's housing list prompted a special meeting of Wicklow County Council last Thursday night. Cllr. Jimmy O'Shaughnessy said he believed that a ' serious crisis had developed over the last two and a half years in Wicklow due to a cut in funding from central government'. He said there would be no more houses built in Wicklow for the next number of years and pointed out that there were 2,500 people on the housing list of the county council, not to mention the number of people on the waiting lists of the town councils. 'In the lifetime of this council and possibly the next these people won't have the opportunity to have a house and that's a serious situation.' He said there were a number of problems which needed to be addressed. 'There have been serious cuts in staffing levels in the housing section and the homelessness officer, Ann Jordan, who did Trojan work was not replaced. I am calling on someone to be put into her place immediately. She did a lot of work with homeless people.' Cllr. O'Shaughnessy said the lack of social and affordable housing was a very serious problem. 'The chances of getting a house now is nil due to the lack of social and affordable housing. There will be no social or affordable houses built in the county because there will be no developments built in the county.' He proposed that the council put housing matters on the agenda every second month. 'It is right and fitting', he said. He also proposed that a cross party delegation meet with the county's five TDs who would share their concerns with Minister Michael Finneran. He was supported by Cllr. Conal Kavanagh who seconded his proposals and said the government policy of long term leasing was not feasible in Wicklow pointing out Wicklow didn't have ghost estates like many other counties. He also said he was against the idea of selling of council land banks saying that both policies and governments change and he felt leasing was not a sustainable initiative. 'To get rid of land is a slash and burn option. 'The social housing leasing initiative doesn't belong in Wicklow. We don't have a big stock of houses.' Cllr. Tom Fortune said the staffing situation within the council had to be looked at and said it was not good enough to say there is an embargo in place. He said that many of the council's housing stock was now vacant because it took the council such a long time to get them back to standard after they were vacated. Cllr. Barry Nevin said the time for action is now and said the council had talked the matter to death. 'Action is needed now,' he said. Cllr. John Byrne said there was a record number of people on the housing list at the moment and said he remembered a time when 20 per cent of all the houses in the county were council houses. 'It is appalling to see young children living in overcrowded conditions in bedsits or old flats. It's appalling.' He said he was also opposed to the idea of long-term leasing and was also against the idea of selling off council houses. Cllr. Nicky Kelly said banks and financial institutions were also preventing long term leasing saying they didn't want to give permission to people to enter into a 20-year lease with the council. The ability to tell people they were on the housing list is key according to Cllr. Simon Harris. He said the council needed to improve internal and external communication links. Cllr. Irene Winters wondered how many people had expressed an interest in offering their houses to the council for leasing. Cllr. Sylvester Burke said if long term leasing fails it will create more social problems. Cllr. Tommy Cullen said that there could be a total of 4,500 people on the council's various housing lists which when dependants and partners were factored in could be as many as 15,000 or 20,000 people. Cllr. John Snell said he welcomed the calls to fill the role of homeless officer and wondered why people hadn't called for it when a man died in a shop front window in Wicklow during the cold weather. He said it was wrong that people felt they would be bumped up the council housing list if they went into the homeless hostel in Rathdrum and urged the council to keep an eye on this. He echoed Cllr. Fortune's concerns about vacant houses and said there was a house in Rathnew vacant and he felt it was due to manpower issues. Cllr. Pat Vance said the issue of filling the position of homeless officer lay with management and not with the members. Director Services for Housing Mike Nicholson said that even though staff numbers in the housing department were down he said they were still doing an 'incredible job'. He said working on the front counter of the housing department was hard and said staff often had to deal with highly abusive or intoxicated people. He said the council had received €6 million in funding for housing which will be used to deliver housing in the county. 'I don't agree we have a housing crisis in the county,' he said, saying if there was any crisis it was due to negative equity. 
