housing
{  
    January 09 2016 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/lifestyle/a-home-from-home-made-at-hughs-house-34333988.html }
Even as they went through the most difficult days of their lives, Ade Stack and Marty Curley were thinking about helping others and have created a 'home from home' for parents with sick children, named for the lost son whose mystery illness and untimely death inspired the incredible legacy that is now 'Hugh's House'. Ade, a native of Malahide and her partner, Marty ended last year with a People of the Year award for their work in establishing Hugh's House but are not resting on their laurels and will spend this year working on opening a second house, just next door. The idea is a simple but brilliant one - the house is a place to stay for parents forced to move to Dublin while their sick children are taken care of in Temple Street Hospital or at The Rotunda. Hugh's House not only provides a homely place to stay but means families can stay together and do not have to be separated while they are going through the trauma of dealing with a seriously ill child. The idea formed in Ade and Marty's heads as they watched parents sleep on plastic chairs and sometimes on the floor at both hospitals as they nursed their son, Hugh through 247 days in hospital. Hugh would never go home, losing his battle for survival at the age of just eight months. But even as this unspeakable grief was unfolding for Ade and her family, she was thinking of others. She explained: 'One of the things that struck us in the Rotunda was how hard it was for the parents outside of Dublin. I just felt it was really hard when there were mums from Clonmel, or mums from Drogheda whose babies had been transferred for care in the Rotunda and the mums were getting the bus up and down from places like Clonmel. I just thought that If I was after having a baby, I wouldn't want to be on a bus for three hours every day. 'The parents didn't even have a room to sit in, so they were either in intensive care or they were standing in a corridor. It just seemed a bit mad, really. So, the journey of Hugh's House actually started before we thought about a house at all. 'We felt there should just be more supports for parents whose babies had been transferred to Dublin from all over. 'Our regional hospitals deal with healthy babies but the bottom line is that sick babies go to Dublin and there is nothing for parents when they get there.' Ade said it felt at the time, that she and Marty could 'make a bit of a difference' and they did. She remembers: 'The idea started before Hugh died and I know that it sounds terrible but we actually started looking for potential houses on the way home from the hospital. 'There was a lady in intensive care in July and Hugh passed away in August and she spent 21 months in Temple Street. She had a job she loved, a great husband and marriage and she came out 21 months later with an extremely disabled child and her marriage was gone and her job was gone and she didn't do anything wrong - this was just the randomness of life. 'They didn't have a single day in double bed in 21 months and I don't mean that in a crude way but they just didn't have the space to be a family.' Ade said it was 'kind of obvious' what had to be done and that was to provide accommodation so that families could stay together during these horribly difficult days. She said: 'Fundamentally, we can't change the outcome for these families or their child but we change their journey.' So the search began for a suitable property and Ade had a very fixed idea of what she wanted. She said: 'We had a sense of what the house should be like. It was meant to face four ways and we kind of thought that would mean it would face everyone in Ireland. 'But where are you going to come across a house in Dublin 1 that's detached and can face four ways? So, we came across these two houses and one faces north and south while the other faces east and west and together they made the room for the garden we wanted. We didn't have the money for both but we put our pension in and more and savings into the first house. 'But it is going to work out because we have now signed the contracts on the second house and between the two of them, we have the space for the garden we want to create.' The first house opened last May and by the end of this year, it is hoped the second house will be up and running. The entire operation is built on the generosity of volunteers from tradesmen who donate their skills to refurbish the buildings, to those who cook dinners for families staying at Hugh's House to places like Tesco in Ashbourne who kindly donate surplus food to the cause. Ade prefers for people to donate items, time, skills and their own talents to support Hugh's House rather than cash and it means that the costs of the charity can stay low. All the rooms in Hugh's House have been 'adopted' by families who have lost children. They have been able to decorate and name the rooms and it means that Hugh's House not only provides a legacy for Hugh but for many other children who have passed on as well. Ade is reluctant to use the word 'legacy' when talking about Hugh's House though and says she is convinced that she and Marty would have pursued the idea, even if Hugh had survived. She said: 'We would have done it anyway. We knew we were going to do something and actually, before we left the Rotunda we gave them some money and we said to them that we trusted them to do the right thing and a few months after Hugh died, they invited us back to the hospital. 'We turned up a half an hour late and found the whole hospital standing there with a ribbon and they had made a parent's room by knocking down a toilet block to make this room for parents that would mean they didn't have to stand on the corridor. We never told them to do that but they had obviously been listening to us talk about it in the time we were there.' Now that the ball is very much rolling on Hugh's House, the couple say they don't feel like they are in charge of it anymore and the life and energy of this happy house is driven by its volunteers and families who occupy it and provide support for each other, through their shared traumas. Ade explained: 'The house is more than accommodation. We could have spent the money on Air B&B for the next ten years but that would not have done it because people need a dinner and to find other families in the same boat. It is a support network for these families.' And the feedback from families who stay in Hugh's House? Well they can't quite believe it exists. Recently, Ade had a conversation with a man whose son was set for a long stay in hospital. The hospital authorities told him about Hugh's House and he had a conversation with Ade about staying there. Ade said: 'He asked me how long he could stay, and I said he could stay until his son went home. He asked if he could stay a month, and I said a month, or however long it took to get his son home - he was that much away from crying.' With a second house opening, Ade needs your help. If you are tradesman that can donate your skills for a few hours or you are willing to cook a meal in your own home or at the house or you can deliver food to the house from Ashbourne, if you can help in any way, please contact Ade at help@hughshouse.ie Memories of Hugh as a 'lovely baby' Ade and Marty's precious little boy, Hugh was born on December 13, 2012 and although his birth was premature, his loving parents had no idea what was in store for them and their child in the next 247 days that would be little Hugh's time on earth. Ade Stack remembered: 'He was born on the 13th of December, 2012 so we just missed his birthday being 12.12.12. They were kind of a little bit concerned about him from the time he was 16 or 17 weeks, when he was that small. They were just keeping an eye on him and at 36 weeks, they decided he was better off out than in. 'He was delivered early and for the first few hours it seemed like he was doing fine but he was tiny. We were delighted that he was born but I was really worried because he was so quiet and he was so different to the others. The first few hours seemed fine and then they brought him down to intensive care to keep an eye on him. 'He looked fine and nothing really stood out and within a day or two they were thinking he could go back down on the ward but then he got a bowel infection and then it was one thing after another. On day eight he got meningitis and then he got the bowel infection back again. So it was never just one thing, he had so many battles.' The couple remained hopeful throughout. Ade said: 'All the time we were in the Rotunda, we thought we would be taking him home. We thought he might need some extra help in life but we never thought he wasn't going to make it. We knew he would have a few more battles than our other two but that was ok.' After six weeks, Hugh was transferred to Temple Street but Hugh's condition continued to get worse and after just eight months of life he passed away and doctors are still not sure, exactly why. The reasons for Hugh's condition are still being explored more than two years later but Ade said knowing why he died will not change anything. 'You can't change that and that was his life. He was a lovely baby,' she said. Ade added: 'I think in the first year, you cried every day and I still cry and I will always cry for him because you miss him. He was great - people might look at him and say God, he's profoundly disabled but I never saw that, I just saw this really cool child who was the most like me of our three children. It sounds very possessive maybe but I just felt I was so like him or he was so like me.' Fingal Independent 
