housing
{ By BRIAN FLEMING 
    June 17 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/so-another-slice-of-bacon-no-thanks-26255083.html }
The Government plan is making a bad housing shortage even worse, writesJames Young. THE implementation of the latest Bacon report certainly has shaken things up in the housing market. Forget the spin from the Government for just a minute and let's see what the first Bacon report did to house prices, and then take a look at what is likely to happen as a result of the changes announced on Thursday. First of all, the first Bacon report led to stamp duty being drastically reduced. Certainly this was a popular move for those wishing to buy in the secondhand market, but what was its real effect? The real effect of the stamp duty changes was to provide an effective discount of between 3 and 6 per cent within the middle end of the housing market. What happened was that more people started looking for houses priced in this sector of the market. The supply of secondhand houses is relatively fixed, and demand went up. Within six months the prices in these sectors reflected the discount and the prices continued to rise substantially thereafter. Second, the original Bacon report led to the elimination of mortgage interest relief for residential investors. It also led to the elimination of Section 23 incentives for those wishing to buy residential houses for investment in designated areas. The result of these reforms was even more damaging for the rental housing sector in the longer term. Sure, the purpose of eliminating tax incentives was to keep the residential investor out of the market, but what happened was that rents went up substantially to reflect the loss of the tax breaks. Furthermore, development of new housing in these areas was stifled, as the primary purchasers of inner city apartments were investors. Supply of rented accommodation became short and rents went up, reflecting the Government-induced shortage. In addition, rents rose even further because the loss of the tax benefits was passed on to the tenant through higher rent. Unfortunately, the rest of the first Bacon report was not fully implemented. Instead, the Government decided to focus on ``greedy investors'' and implement only the most popular bits of the report's findings. Their actions clearly did not work. Subsequent analyses of the residential market show this, with the unforeseen consequence that rents soared out of control and house prices were unaffected. The selective implementation of the findings has only proven a point made by a journalist in The Wall Street Journal several weeks ago. He suggested that if a business does something that doesn't work, they will quit doing it because it will lose money. If a government does something that doesn't work, they will do more of it because the problem was obviously that they didn't do enough of it. Forget the fact that the original plan was doomed to failure. So what are the implications likely to be for the Government's actions on the latest Bacon report? Unfortunately, they are not likely to be pleasant if you want a house to rent or buy any time soon. For example, who do you think is going to end up paying the 2 per cent investment tax? You may say that it is the property owner, but do you really think that a landlord is going to pay another £2,000 in tax per year without passing it on in rents? Of course he's not. So what happens to those people who cannot afford a house and are renting an apartment until they save enough money for a deposit? They will be well and truly stuck, because they are likely to face substantially higher rents before they can save enough for the deposit. BUT say, for example, that you will be lucky enough to have the money to afford a deposit on your first home in about three months. Sure, you may well have lower costs because of the changes in stamp duty, but you will not be alone in looking for that house. Again, the supply of secondhand houses is relatively fixed and there will be more potential house owners chasing that short supply. The result is that prices will go up within the lower price brackets of the secondhand market within a few months from now, reflecting the new discount. As far as new houses go, why should developers reduce their prices below what the market will bear? New house prices follow the trend of secondhand houses. Secondhand house prices will be going up in the traditional first-time buyer categories in the lower end of the market, so you can bet that new house prices will soon follow the trend upward. So let's just summarise what the likely outcome of the Government's actions are going to be from a first-time buyer's point of view in the coming months. You are living in an apartment and your rent is going up to pay the costs of the investment tax that has been passed on. You can no longer save for your deposit on a house. Even if you could, the prices will be going up due to the increased demand and you will have to come up with a bigger deposit. Say you buy a house in a few months' time. If you buy in the secondhand market, you will be paying a higher mortgage because of the price increases and lack of supply. If you buy a new house, you may end up living next to a local authority purchaser whose house you have subsidised because of the 20 per cent social housing requirement. Forget the fact that any penalties the developer has to pay due to holding on to land will be passed on to the eventual buyer of the house and lead to even higher prices for new houses as well. Over the next few months, the first-time buyer will bein a bigger squeeze than ever, because of a lack of understanding of housing economics by a Government minister. Almost all housing economics studies that analyse these types of interventions over time suggest that they fail to achieve the purpose intended and have many undesirable side-effects for housing markets. Not only will the Government's interventions fail in their purpose in this case, it will lead to an overall housing shortage worse than what we are experiencing now, because of its lack of understanding of how housing markets work in relation to first-time buyers. * James Young is an independent property economist and secretary of the European Real Estate Society 
