housing
{ Mark Keenan 
    July 20 2016 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/pros-and-cons-seven-reasons-coveneys-ambitious-housing-plan-will-and-will-not-work-34897871.html }
We've had housing crises before - in the late 1990s and most of all in the 1940s and 1950s when the slums in our cities were cleared. Successive governments have learned lessons from tackling housing issues in the past, but too many have also repeated history's mistakes. So has the new €5.35bn housing action plan unveiled yesterday taken into account past successes or does it repeat the mistakes which have led to failure? The answer is perhaps a little of both.  The Coveney Plan fails to learn from past mistakes because: 1. It rolls old promises into new ones: The last government and previous regimes have been faulted for announcing "new" housing output figures which, upon closer inspection, include previously promised housing output figures which haven't been delivered. Our "new" plan has a headline figure promising 47,000 social housing units deliverable by 2021. But what happened to the 35,000 units which were promised in 2014 - by 2020 - of which just 75 new builds have actually been delivered and another 1,000 or so existing homes acquired? It seems these are included in the new plan which simply tops up the old 35,000 unit promise by 12,000. 2. It can't work without sustained support from Finance: Promises made by different housing ministers in the past came a-cropper because they got skinned of cash by reluctant finance ministers - often from different parties and ideologies. Much of this plan's success hinges on substantial relief provided to buyers in this year's Budget and in successive budgets going forward. As the Construction Industry Federation points out, no new homes will be provided unless ordinary people can buy them and 40pc of people don't qualify for a mortgage under the stringent Central Bank lending regime. New homes in North Dublin aren't selling for €300,000 because average buyers can't get a loan. Builders won't get finance if no one can buy and therefore they won't build. The plan needs budgetary reliefs for buyers. 3. Built-in inflation?: Which brings us to the dangers of inflating prices by providing too much spending pep. The Coveney plan includes a pledge to increase the spending power of social housing tenants through increasing their rent allowance. But measures that increase spending power amidst tight supply are inflationary. The abolition by Minister Brian Cowen of stamp duty for buyers during the heated Celtic Tiger years ensured that the increased spending power every buyer experienced overnight was simply absorbed by the vendors as universally richer buyers competed for the same amount of homes. The extension of Section 23 relief through the boom years kept new apartment prices artificially high. But the Coveney Plan has learned from past experiences because: 1. It's got fast track: The success in developing Dublin's Temple Bar and later, to a degree, the Docklands was helped by a "fast track" planning system which accelerated fruition and encouraged investment. In this regard, Mr Coveney's Housing Action Plan vitally includes an undertaking that housing schemes over 100 units could progress straight to An Bord Pleanála for a planning decision. 2. Skin In The Game - Acclaim and Blame: The greatest housing drive in the history of the State saw 80,000 rehoused from crumbling slums in Dublin through the 1940s and 1950s in a drive spearheaded by city architect Herbie Simms, who took personal responsibility for dragging it along - albeit to the detriment of his own health. Without Simms, it would have floundered in red tape. Any big housing push needs an obvious driver with dash. But housing plans have failed because ministers moved and committees of civil servants dissipated, leaving no one ultimately responsible. Simon Coveney really has nailed his prospects to this mast, having actively sought this job. He pledges to appoint a Cabinet committee chaired by the Taoiseach and, most vitally, to set up a new Housing Delivery Office. These will be the people responsible for driving the housing plan on the ground. Ultimately, Coveney and the HDO will be responsible if it doesn't work. 3. It covers all corners: In the past, ministers have put together housing plans which have considered some aspects of the housing provision chain, such as construction or finance, but not others - say, planning or local authority needs. Housing plans in the 1990s failed because they did not have the support of the local authorities and measures could not be enforced by central government. But the Coveney plan is the most comprehensive produced in recent years and leaves nothing out. At 117 pages long, it considers every aspect from students, to arrears, to empty shops, to finance, to local planning. 4. It's on the right scale: Since the current housing crisis broke various attempts to address it have included innumerable tweaks and tinkerings on a level which has been too slight to make a difference. A promise to deliver 26,000 purpose-built new social housing units by 2021 among 47,000 social homes overall is a meaty enough tally to address what is a national emergency - causing child homelessness and social insecurity while damaging our competitiveness and sucking consumer cash from the economy. Irish Independent 
