housing
{ Moore McDowell 
    May 13 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/savings-scheme-wont-make-houses-cheaper-25914277.html }
IN the end the only thing that will make housing more affordable for people  on lower incomes and/or first time buyers is if the price of housing falls relative to their  incomes. That can't happen if you make them capable of paying more, and nothing else  changes. IN the end the only thing that will make housing more affordable for people on lower incomes and/or first time buyers is if the price of housing falls relative to their incomes. That can't happen if you make them capable of paying more, and nothing else changes. If people can pay more, and if the supply of what they want to spend their money on does not rise, the price of whatever they spend the money on has to rise. This is a simple and completely universal truth. You can, of course, do things that increase the ability of one group to pay at the expense of another. If you do so, but leave the aggregate ability to pay unchanged, you will permit the favoured group to do better in terms of getting their hands on a scarce commodity . . . at the expense of some other group or groups. The point I am concerned with is whether it makes sense to create a new form of SSIA to help first time buyers, as has been suggested by Fine Gael. Given the popularity of the existing SSIAs, I have no doubt that it is a clever suggestion, and will be electorally beneficial. The problem is that it may be illusory, that it may be like the first time buyers grant that, as is now generally accepted, simply hiked up house prices by adding to overall demand for, and ability to pay for, housing. As a first approximation, the Fine Gael proposal certainly looks as if it could have this effect. We have already heard the warnings from the insurance sector of the potential house price consequences of the bonanzas that will be received when the existing SSIAs start to mature in 2006 and 2007. And, on the face of it, since the Fine Gael proposal in itself does nothing that will add to housing supply it is difficult to see how it will not cause prices to rise by increasing ability to pay. But would the proposal work in the sense of making it easier for new buyers to get houses because they have more money to do so relative to those who already have houses? Alas, no. What it would mean is that new entrants would have an advantage in bidding for houses, new and secondhand, that come on the market. This advantage would be increased if new purchasers were exempt from stamp duty on second hand houses. But if the first time buyers get the houses, then existing house owners simply remain in their current houses. The aggregate demand for housing would have increased, with one group being given an advantage in getting what becomes available . . . for which they will have to pay more, while others, who would like to change houses will be less able to do so and will stay where they are. So, in the end we are back to where we started. To make housing more affordable for all house prices have to fall relative to ability to pay, and this can only happen if supply expands faster than demand. Is there, then, no merit in the proposal? Is it simply smoke and mirrors? Again, the answer is no: there is a benefit from doing this, and it may well have significant consequences for house prices, but in a quite subtle and unexpected way. It may reduce the overall demand for houses, at least temporarily, and possibly on a long term basis, controlling for ability to pay. How? Well, suppose you decide as a young person to take up the Fine Gael proposal and decide to save, say, ?1,000 a month over four years to amass a deposit of ?60,000 incentivised to do so by the bonus payment offered by the new Fine Gael Government swept to power by this proposal. Where, on average do you think some one in his/her early to mid twenties will find the money (other than by feeding arsenic to their parents)? The most obvious source is some form of existing spending, and since this is an accommodation decision, the most obvious way to free up money is by spending less on acquiring accommodation in the short run. This suggests that they will decide not to move out to set up independent households to the same extent, but stay longer with parents. They will be more willing to share accommodation intensively in order to save to get a deposit. That means a fall in demand relative to supply as far as available housing units is concerned. It means an increase in the average household size, reversing the secular trend for more and smaller households that has been relentlessly pushing up demand for houses and house prices. It is possible, even probable, that this proposal could have the effect of reducing demand for accommodation relative to the capacity of existing and new housing to supply it by encouraging larger (in numbers of people) average household size and slow down the rate of household formation. If it has these effects it will dampen the rate of increase of house prices generally, which means, paradoxically, making it easier for first time buyers to buy houses by persuading them to delay making the purchase in the first place. Because, whether you rent or buy, you are demanding housing, and sustaining the current level of house prices. And if you stay at home, or share accommodation, you reduce the demand for housing space, and this holds down accommodation prices. 
