housing
{ Oonagh Montaghue 
    October 03 2008 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/home-garden/homes/every-house-has-a-story-26481730.html }
Fictional character Peter Pan once said that swallows build in the eaves of houses "so they can listen to the stories". For those of us fortunate enough to live in an old house, there now exists a way to discover the stories your home would tell if its walls could talk. Founded by husband and wife team Fiona Fitzsimons and Brian Donovan, Eneclann is a research consultancy providing a range of services within the historical, heritage and archival sector. One of these is House Histories, a research service for people interested in the historical background to their home. Fiona and Brian met as history students at Trinity College, where Eneclann is now based. "We started the business as a way of making money while in college, but we soon realised there was huge interest in this kind of genealogy research," says Fiona. "The one element of a house history that catches everyone's imagination is the 'detective' aspect of our research." Over a decade later the couple employs a team of professional 'detectives' made up of researchers, historians, genealogists and archivists. According to Fiona the secrets they uncover can vary enormously, from the melodramatic to the mundane. "We found one house in Rathmines where in 1842 the notorious murder of a man by his much older wife occurred. Another house in Sligo we found had been used as a guano (bird-droppings) warehouse in the 19th century." All kinds of people commission house histories. Property developers will look for names with historical significance to the area to use in the naming of new developments. Homeowners will look for evidence to help with applications for local authority or heritage council conservation grants. Architects seeking planning permission for listed buildings or searching for clues when restoring a period property also get in touch with Eneclann. "We do a lot of work on protected structures, and house histories is an integral part of this process," says Patricia Mangan, director of Studio M architects. Over the years this has not been without surprises. "We had a property in Mayo, which turned out to have been linked to an attempted assasination." Ideally, Patricia would like to see house histories becoming an integral part of the housing market. "Every house should have a house history, something to add to as time goes on." Auctioneers are regular users of the house histories service. When investigating a period property, they look for background history or links to a famous previous occupant. "We researched a house in Castlebellingham, County Louth and the client was most interested in the fact that British Prime Minister Gladstone had visited it," explains Fiona. Nuggets such as this can prove crucial during a sale. Mary O'Conor commissioned a house history of her home on Garville Avenue as a present for her husband, the pianist John O'Conor. They were delighted with the results. "It is very well done," she says. "It goes into great detail. Now, when our sons inherit the house they'll have a potted history to go with it." The story of one previous owner turned out to be of particular interest to the O'Conors. Charles Lawler was the owner and manager of the original Imperial Hotel in Dublin. Eneclann discovered that in 1911, while on a trip to Wales he not only saved a man from drowning but also gave him his jacket to keep him warm. Unfortunately as a result of his heroism Lawler caught a chill and died soon afterwards. "John's mother was a Lawler," says Mary. "Although Charles Lawler never did have children there's a chance there's a connection with her family." As Eneclann's founders, it's only natural that Fiona and Brian created a house history of their own home on South Circular Road. They uncovered a few surprises. "Initially we had assumed the house had been built as a stable and coach-house to Island Bridge House, a larger 'gentleman's residence', built around the same time," recalls Fiona. However, research proved that the house was much older than they had first realised. "It transpired that the house had been built as part of the Royal Hospital Kilmainham estate -- as a residence for the fireman responsible for keeping the adjoining boiler-house working." At various times their home also served as a post office and as a shop. For Brian and Fiona these discoveries are about more than just history. Brian explains: "It's about bringing back a sense of neighbourhood and community. It gives you a connection to the region around you. People are missing that in their lives." A house history starts at around €450 and takes approximately eight to 10 weeks to complete. To begin the process, Eneclann need a legible photocopy of the house or title deeds. If the property is particularly old, you may be asked to provide photos of the front and rear elevation of the house. One reason for this is that one of the best clues as to the real age of a house lies in the chimney. "A house may have been updated three or four times, but the chimney is always the last to go," says Fiona. Patricia Mangan, Studio M Architects, 5-7 Main Street, Blackrock, Co Dublin, www.studiomarchitects.ie Eneclann Ltd, Unit 1 Trinity Enterprise Centre, Pearse St, D2. Tel: 01 671 0338 or visit www.eneclann.ie 
