housing
{ Brendan O'Connor 
    December 03 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-holy-grail-of-falling-house-prices-could-put-lots-of-us-in-negative-equity-26419290.html }
IT seemed to be a cause for celebration last week that the average price of a new house had dipped slightly in the month of October. Front-page headlines on even the sober newspapers screamed of house prices falling. Before we get on to the strange question of why falling house prices are automatically thought of as a good thing, we should look at the figures which back up thi IT seemed to be a cause for celebration last week that the average price of a new house had dipped slightly in the month of October. Front-page headlines on even the sober newspapers screamed of house prices falling. Before we get on to the strange question of why falling house prices are automatically thought of as a good thing, we should look at the figures which back up this contention. In fact, house prices in general continue to surge ahead, and they did so too in October, the month in question. House prices in general rose by 0.6 per cent in October, bringing house price increases in Ireland so far this year to 12 per cent (15 per cent in Dublin). The average price of a new house did fall ever so slightly, by less than half a percent, but to use this figure in isolation to suggest that the sky has fallen in, is slightly premature. Even in the specific category of new houses it is worth noting that even with the slight drop in October, annual growth in the average price of new houses is running at 12.6 per cent. And then we get to the curious question of why people seem to feel house prices should be falling and why politicians are queueing up to make capital out of saying that we need to figure out how to make house prices fall. The idea that house prices rising is a bad thing comes from the notion that potential first-time buyers are good people and poor people while the rest of us, who own houses already are all loaded, and could do with the prices of our houses going down in order to subsidise the poor first-time buyers. Which is a handy dichotomy, if it were true. But the truth is that most of us who own houses are not fat-cat capitalists. Indeed, many of us, before we became bad people who own houses, were, until very recently, potential first-time buyers. Most of us who own our own houses are in enormous debt for crazy, frightening sums like a quarter and a half of a million. We all know people who are miles away from being millionaires but who owe the bank a million quid. And frankly, it gives us some small comfort, as we try not to get too scared about the enormous amount of money we owe, to think that at least if all comes to all we could sell our houses in the morning and be able to pay off our mortgages. So we don't welcome this Government's mickeying around with stamp duty, creating uncertainty and driving prices down. This holy grail of house prices going down could put lots of us into negative equity, whereby we could owe more than our house is worth. Let's not forget that one needs one's house to increase in value by about 10 per cent these days before we can feel we're at break even point anyway. Because the Government effectively pockets the first nine per cent of the "profit" on any reasonably-sized house in the form of stamp duty. Indeed it is the Government, which feigns such concern about house-price increases, and semi-demonises people who own their homes as speculator fat cats, which is the biggest beneficiary of house-price increases through stamps duty, which is its ideal kind of tax - easily collected and requiring nothing in return. The rest of us meanwhile, partly in order to pay this stamp duty, are wrestling with the highest levels of personal debt in the Eurozone. It used to be that the average person's level of debt would be less than their annual income. In recent years, because of house prices, the average person's debt has become twice their income. In the past year alone, mortgage debt here has increased by a quarter. With these levels of debt, it is difficult for us to cheer either when interest rates keep going up. With five rises in the last year, and seemingly two or three more to come, it's hard for homeowners to view themselves as the lucky ones. It's hard for us too to see how these interest-rate rises, and their depressing effect on house prices, can be a good thing. They want us to pay more every month for something that's worth less. All in the name of first-time buyers. And all the time, the Government has an easy answer to all this. The Tanaiste has admitted the Government doesn't need revenue from residential stamp duty. Those of us who pay it get nothing in return from the State. It is a purely arbitrary opportunistic tax on one of life's great essentials - shelter. Speaking of purely arbitrary taxes, I lashed out over 500 quid for motor tax the other day. That's 500 quid of money I was already taxed on. So, essentially, I had to earn about a grand to pay that tax. It is not a particularly amazing car - 2-litre engine and five years old. I paid a load of tax when I bought that car and I pay an enormous amount of tax every time I fill the tank - about half of the cost of filling the tank is tax. Again I pay this with money that has already been taxed. And what do I get for all these taxes? What do I get for the fact that I am essentially taxed four times over as a motorist? I get the roads in Dublin which are the most potholed, dangerous roads I've come across in a capital city. Proving that all the taxes on motorists are in fact just another arbitrary opportunist tax. And why do they take these taxes from us? Because they can. 
