housing
{  
    August 14 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/sport/other-sports/kilkerley-emmets-seeking-26911202.html }
Kilkerley Emmets are the latest local Gaelic club seeking to floodlight their pitch with an application to Louth County Council for permission to erect eight 18m. high lighting columns around the outside of their playing field at Donaghmore, Kilkerley. This is among the planning applications received by Louth County Council from July 26th to August 1st. Outline permission sought by Brendan McArdle, Corderry, Knockbridge for house, waste water treatment system (wwts) and associated site works at Corderry. Permission sought by Blathnaid and Aidan Quinn, 31 Old Bridge, Slane Road, Drogheda to redesign and relocate house and associated site works at Site 6, Sheetland Road, Termonfeckin. Permission sought by A. Chawner, Sealodge, Dunany for dormer bungalow, proprietary wwtu, entrance and change of house type at Carrickbaggot, Grangebellew. Permission sought by Michael Larkin, Ballybailie, Ardee for house, wwts and percolation area at Richardstown, Ardee. Permission sought by John and Helen Culleton, 53 Willowdale, Bay Estate, Dundalk for house, septic tank, wwtp, domestic garage, attic playroom overhead and associated site works at Cortial, Kilkerley. Permission sought by Theresa Clinton, Old Road, Brownstown, Monasterboice for extension and alteration to house, wwts and associated site works at Old Road. Outline permission sought by Seamus Byrne, Drumnacarra, Ravensdale for house, wwts and associated site works at Drumnacarra. Outline permission sought by Paul Byrne, Drumnacarra, Ravensdale for house, wwts and associated site works at Drumnacarra. Permission sought by Gerry and Karen Finnegan, St Anthony, Culhane Street, Dundalk for house to incorporate 6 bedroom B&B, wwtp, percolation area and associated site works at Knocknagoran, Omeath. Permission sought by Bobby McDonnell and Audrey McGeogh, Lower Rath, Carlingford for house and elevated levels at Willville, Carlingford. Permission sought by Cherryfield Homes Ltd., Mooretown, Maynooth Road, Celbridge for change of house type, change site boundaries, layouts, roads and drainage, modify front boundary treatment to units 23-32 at Townley Manor, Watery Lane, Tullyallen. Permission sought by Pat Tiernan, Stirue, Dunleer for grain storage building at Stirue. Permission sought by Mary Balfe, Anaglog, Ardee to relocate spetic tank, percolation area at Smarmore. Permission sought by G Collier and C Kirwan, The Dales, Clogherhead for dormer house, wwts and associated site works at The Dales. Permission sought by Jerome Lambe, Dulargy, Ravensdale for house, garage, septic tank and percolation area at Deerpark, Ravensdale. Permission sought by Roy Taylor, Clermont Road, Haynestown for vehicular entrance to house at Clermont Road, Permission sought by W.R. Rusk, Hill of Rath, Tullyallen for extension and alteration to house at Hill of Rath. Outline permission sought by Kenny and Ashline Sullivan, 25 Hazlewood Avenue, Bay Estate, Dundalk for house, wwts and percolation area at Ballinurd, Kilkerley. Permission sought by Frank McGahon, Castlehill, Carlingford for house at Rock Road, Blackrock. Permission sought by Jim and Colette Jones, Nunneryland, Termonfeckin for attic conversion, three dormer windows to front, one window to each gable of single storey house at Nunneryland. Outline permission sought by Philomena O’Callaghan, Erryroe, Castleblayney for house and effluent treatment system at Richardstown, Ardee. Permission sought by Gerry Maher, 7 Boyne Lodge, Slane Road, Drogheda for alterations to house at Cliven, Dunleer. Permission sought by Terry King, Redbarnes, Drumcar Road, Dunleer for 1.05ha quarry, recommence and extend quarry facilities for a period of five years etc. at Killineer, Newtownmonasterboice. Permission sought by Peter McCormack, Boharnamoe, Ardee for front porch extension to house at Boharnamoe. Permission sought by Fergal McElroy, Ballybinaby, Hackballscross for dormer house, domestic garage, wwts and associated site works at Ballybinaby. Permission sought by Gerry McKenny, Ballabonia, Reaghstown, Ardee for dormer house, wwtp at Reaghstown. Permission sought by Colin and Aileen Gallagher, Rathory, Ardee for domestic garage with playroom / gym on upper floor, horse stables and store, 2.4m boundary wall to part of north and west at Rathory. Permission sought by Rosemary Mackin, Ballymakellet, Ravensdale for house, septic tank and percolation area at Ballymakellet. Permission sought by Michelle Hoey, Mullabohy, Knockbridge to convert two derelict cottages into one house, 1st floor extension to rear, ground floor extension, wwts and associated site works at Kilcroney, Knockbridge. Permission sought by Malachy Walsh, Thomastown Lodge, Coolfore, Monasterboice to complete dormer house under construction and associated site works at Hill of Rath, Tullyallen. Permission sought by James Donnelly, Edenakill, Hackballscross for site boundaries at Edenakill. Permission sought by Declan Lynch, Ballinlough, Knockbridge for change of house type from dormer to single storey bungalow at Site 7, Seabrook, Commons Road, Dromiskin. Permission sought by Richella Norris, Ballyoonan, Omeath for house, boundaries, septic tank, percolation area and associated site works to Ballyoonan. P.J. and Ann Flynn, Moneymore, Carlingford for extension to front and side elevation of house at Moneymore. Permission sought by Patrick Doherty, Doolargy, Ravensdale for attic development, dormer windows to front elevation at Doolargy. Permission sought by Ann Putz, Upper Faughart, Mountpleasant for extension to rear, side and front of house, consisting of bedroom and bathroom to rear, side entrance and bay window to front elevation at Upper Faughart. Permission sought by Martin Curran, 76 Garrybawn, Dundalk for two-storey house and garage at 14 Seabank, Dromiskin. 
