housing
{ James Young 
    October 21 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/governments-part-in-keeping-high-house-prices-25894123.html }
YESTERDAY we heard the spin from Permanent TSB that house prices are stabilising, with a house price increase in the first nine months of the year at 7.8pc. Why is this spin? Because stabilising at 7.8pc over nine months puts the house price inflation rate near double digits for yet another year. With inflation running at about 3pc, house prices are set to rise at over three times the rate of inflation this year alone. How can this be? Housing production is at the highest level ever. Ministers constantly say that we have broken the back of rapidly rising house prices by increasing production. But let's get things straight. Have you ever seen a housing minister out there laying bricks or swinging a hammer building a house? No. That is because developers build houses and they take the risks. Housing production is at a record level, but it has little to do with the Minister for Housing or any other Government official. In fact, the Government is the problem. Not only does it take forever for a developer to get permissions to build a house, the planning system is both expensive to navigate and about as transparent as frozen milk. Then you have the planning preferences for higher density developments while those with significant equity in their existing house are looking to trade up to lower density housing. Anyone who wishes to trade up has to go into the secondhand house market where supply is limited. Then they face taxes that are punitive on top of paying top money for their house. If you are a buyer of a new house, then you have to pay increased levies and VAT. Do you see a pattern here? How many of those problems have to do with Government policy? Permissions? The Government. Planning system? The Government? Planning preferences? The Government. High transaction taxes? The Government? Higher levies included in the price? The Government? But let's not be unfair. More developers are deciding that they would rather vacation more often than put up with the nightmare of getting sites and approvals for larger houses that will sell. Many are pursuing foreign ventures and commercial development. In fact, it is unlikely that home building figures may reach the record level set last year. So with housing output possibly levelling off, is the Government likely to do something about house price increases that are still significantly above inflation? No. That is because high house prices mean a higher tax take in VAT and stamp duties. In short, the Government has no incentive to do anything about house prices except increase costs as much as possible. If developers are producing less housing, you will probably hear the housing minister saying that he will do all he can to ensure adequate supply in public and then privately rub his hands with glee when meeting the Finance Minister. Lower supply means higher prices in a high demand market. As far as housing markets are concerned, the Government is involved in a shake down. When demand was particularly high a few years back, planning restrictions and bureaucracy should have been eased and levies and taxes reduced. In fact, a property tax would have probably been a good idea in relation to the affordability issue. But instead, we had the Government throwing up more restrictions and making the housing markets less efficient. As a result, we are now faced with the prospect that as long as interest rates and employment figures remain stable, we will continue to have overall house price increases well above inflation. When you hear developers talking about building in Spain and finding the system there more efficient and transparent, then you know you must have a problem. But the Government spin machine is in action. House prices are stabilising because the Government has done something. Yeah, they did some things all right. That is why you have prices rising at three times the rate of inflation. And the alternatives for a Government, the opposition parties, have proposals to make the problem worse for buyers rather than better. So why don't we call a truce. Instead of having a Government Minister telling us that house prices are stabilising because of his actions, why don't we have the minister assume a name, become an anonymous builder and try to actually go through the process and build houses; large ones that people actually want to buy? When we see him laying bricks and pulling his hair out after meeting with a planner, then we will know that he sees the problem. In return, we will ignore the amount of money that the Government shakes down from homebuyers for a little while. 
