housing
{ Maria Pepper. 
    October 24 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/news/ten-years-ago-we-were-housing-one-family-now-were-housing-one-or-the-other-spouse-and-children-27290667.html }
The demand for rented local authority accommodation in Wexford has increased by 35% in recent years with more than 2000 applicants throughout the county now waiting to be housed. An indepth analysis carried out by Wexford Co. Council shows a continuing rise in social housing needs with the most significant trend being the large number of one adult households on the list. Seventy-one per cent of all applicants belong to one adult households, including 100 lone females, 439 lone females with children, 152 lone males and 17 lone males with children giving a total of 708. 'The family structure has changed. Ten years ago we were housing one family. Now we're housing one or the other spouse and children', commented Cllr. Peter Byrne of Enniscorthy'. An increase in the number of single mothers and a rise in the incidence of marital breakdown are the main factors behind the change which presents the Council with challenges in terms of the size of units it is building. 'Society has changed so much', said Cllr. Padge Reck. 'There is such a demand for two-bedroomed houses for single mothers that we are not building one-bedroomed houses. [This is not suitable] for elderly people, so you are really waiting for someone to die which is very sad'. Bigger homes 'We're also putting young girls with babies into two-bedroomed houses which is ridiculous because they are going to have partners and more children and require bigger homes later on'. Cllr. Reck also noted the social change in relation to the demand for one-bedroomed units. 'It used to be people aged 60 and over. Now, it's 25 year olds we're putting into one-bedroomed houses. No-one can live at home anymore'. Enniscorthy Independent councillor, Sean Doyle commented that there were 'a lot of young girls with babies out there' but was reminded by Cllr. Deirdre Bolger of Gorey that there were 'a lot of young men out there too'. 'Yes, they are participating in the process of procreation but are not facing up to their responsibilities. It was time the State caught up with them, in my view', said Cllr. Doyle. According to the Housing Officer, Niall McDonnell ,the Co. Council is responding to an identifiable housing need. 'We have given houses to spouses in a relationship where couples have separated but if we don't do that we would be dealing with far greater problems down the line'. 'And we are providing a substantial number of one-bedroomed units and apartment-type blocks in towns and villages around the county'. Said the Director of Services, Kieran O' Brien -'The Council recognises the social trends and the Housing Construction Programme and housing types provided, will reflect the changing family structures, in particular the need to provide housing for elderly people, single persons and the homeless, in addition to the standard family house'. Cllr. Michael D'Arcy of Gorey is concerned that the increase in demand for housing could throw the Council back to the difficult times of the 1960's and 1970's when 'you had two and three families living in a house'. But there is no danger of that, according to Mr. McDonnell because the Council is providing 150 completed units a year and will continue to do so, subject to finance being available. Since March of this year, 94 applicants have been housed by the Co. Council through house completions and casual vacancies with a further 79 to be housed by the end of 2002. The Affordable Housing Scheme which has been very successful in Castlebridge and Gorey, with the construction of 90 units, is also having a positive impact in reducing the demand. In addition, more than 300 units have been provided by Voluntary housing agencies who are being encouraged by the Council to become even more involved in local-authority planned housing developments over the next few years. The Council has put together four major land banks in each of the four main towns where ambitious housing schemes are proposed and provision has been made in the design and lay-out of the sites for the voluntary sector to play a role. Applicants Knowing the social needs of its housing applicants is helping the Council to provide the right kind of accommodation for the varying types of households on the list and regular assessments are being carried out to ensure the housing programme is adequate and suitable. The most recent analysis shows that 50% of applicants are currently living in private rented accommodation; 86 Traveller households require social rented housing; there are 9 non-national applicants from outside the EU on the list; 59% of all the applicants have incomes below ?10,000 23% are employed; 35% are unemployed; 30% in receipt of lone parent support; 6% are on Fas/Back to Work schemes and 6% are pensioners. 
