housing
{  
    January 15 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/housing-and-roads-are-still-beyond-the-budget-27365979.html }
The local authority failed to purchase any land for social housing in some parts of Kerry. And rising land prices are making it impossible for the council to compete on the open market in some areas of the county.Despite these difficulties, budget discussions on how the council is performing in the area of housing signalled good news for those on housing waiting lists.The ho The local authority failed to purchase any land for social housing in some parts of Kerry. And rising land prices are making it impossible for the council to compete on the open market in some areas of the county. Despite these difficulties, budget discussions on how the council is performing in the area of housing signalled good news for those on housing waiting lists. The housing list is gradually shortening and more and more underprivileged people, including the homeless and the elderly, are benefiting from a range of new housing schemes and assistance programmes. There are currently 577 applicants on the county housing list, almost 100 people less than at the same time in 1999. The greatest demand for social housing is in the Dingle area where 94 people are on the list, followed by Killarney and Ballybunion. Two hundred and thirteen house were started last year – the largest number in 20 years. The Shared Ownership Scheme, Affordable Housing Scheme, Low Cost Sites and the provision of loans also applied to hundreds of others with housing needs. Over 300 people benefited from the Disabled Persons grant and the Essential Repair Grant Schemes. The average waiting time for those allocated a house last year was 2.13 years. Kerry County Council currently has a landbank of 135 for social housing. It is the council’s objective to acquire land in every village and town in the county. But the council is limited by law on what it can spend on land acquisitions. If the council cannot find land or afford it, it will use compulsory purchase orders to build up its land reserve. The Department of the Environment authorised Kerry County Council to build 550 houses for the period 2000 to 2003. Over the four-year period, the council has constructed 283 houses, acquired five houses and 181 are currently under construction. Tenders have been received for a 19-house scheme in Ballyferriter and a 20-house scheme in Ballybunion. Tenders have been invited for a 20-house scheme in Kenmare and tenders are due to be invited for a scheme of 22 houses in Ardfert. A grant of ?13 million was given to Kerry County Council for housing in 2003. Despite the decrease in the number of people on housing list over the past four years, the council will be seeking approval for the same number of housing starts over the next four years. This equates to an average of 135 housing starts each year. But not all councillors were entirely happy with parts of the council’s policy on housing. Fianna Fáil’s Paul O’Donoghue said at Monday’s meeting that special recognition should be given to Kerry emigrants who had fallen on hard times in England or other countries. He said that because they are not resident in Ireland, they are not allowed apply for local authority housing. He asked that the council examine a scheme similar to the pilot scheme established by the Cahersiveen Social Services which addresses this issue. KERRY’S roads continue to be the single biggest drain on the county’s purse, accounting for over 38 per cent of the entire county council budget. Almost ?39 million is proposed to be spent on the county’s network this year in construction and maintenance works. Significant progress was made on some of Kerry’s National Primary routes, including 10.5 km of new road from Ballycarthy to Castleisland and Ballycarthy to Gortatlea. Construction also commenced on the Tralee-Castleisland-Limerick Boundary route and options for the route of the Castleisland bypass will be published later this year. The ?20-million road project from Headley’s Bridge to Feale’s Bridge has been approved by the National Roads Authority and work on the ?13-million Gortatlea to Farranfore project is expected to commence this summer. All improvement works on national roads are funded by the National Roads Authority and do not impact on Kerry County Council’s budget. This week’s budget meeting of Kerry County Council heard that over 300km of non-national roads were improved in the county last year. But Kerry’s roads programme continues to prove a massive drain on the annual budget – the council proposes to increase its own allocation to roads this year by 10 per cent. The proposed rise is in excess of inflation and would bring Kerry County Council’s own allocation to roads to ?3.3 million. But the 10 per cent increase is still not adequate to allow Kerry County Council do all the desired work on the county’s roads network. Local Improvement Schemes, Gaeltacht grants, the CLÁR Programme and councillor’s allocations also provided thousands of euro absorbed by Kerry’s roads infrastructure last year. But the issue of motor taxation and the fact that it is not retained within the county continues to be a contentious issue for some elected members. Again this year, some councillors argued that the tax collected from vehicle owners should be kept in Kerry and used to improve the county’s roads. The current system provides that all motor taxation is funnelled into the national exchequer. The Minister for the Environment then returns some of this money to Kerry by way of general purpose grants to local authorities. Independent Councillor Brendan Cronin took a cynical stance on how local authorities are funded by central government and vehemently opposed the current practice of giving all of Kerry’s motor tax to government. “It is ridiculous that motor tax is not kept in the county. Instead it is given to the Government and the minister gives us back our own money – and then welcomes it and calls us lucky to get it,” Councillor Cronin said. He also said that Fianna Fáil politicians were falling over themselves while fax machines hummed with the sound of political announcements of giving us back what the taxpayers of Kerry paid for in the first instance. The volume of business transacted within the roads and Transportation Department of Kerry County Council continues to rise. Last year, total transactions rose by five per cent to 153,000. A further increase is anticipated this year. 
