housing
{ ISABEL HURLEY 
    November 11 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/builders-deny-hoarding-land-to-artificially-boost-profits-26104018.html }
THE notion that super-rich builders hoarding land banks are  to blame for the housing crisis was firmly knocked on the head at a conference of builders in Dublin yesterday. The director of the Irish Home Builders' Association (IHBA), Ciaran Ryan, told the Construction Industry Federation conference in the RDS that alternatives to the traditional ways of delivering social housing must now be re-examined. "Talk of increasing house prices has been the topic of conversation at almost every dinner table and gathering in recent years. Builders are blamed, of course, for these increases. Builders stand accused of hoarding land, making super profits and delivering inadequate levels of housing to match demand," said Mr Ryan. The IHBA director likened the demand on builders for housing in the current economic boom to the increased demands on CIE for greater public transport. "The scale of the demand has taken everybody by surprise. In reality, the house building sector is to be congratulated on delivering a supply so far in excess of all predictions. Had the industry not delivered the volume supplied, the pressures on housing and house prices would have been far more serious. ROAD NETWORKS "The real issue has been insufficient investment in infrastructure in terms of water, sewerage and road networks. Insufficient attention was given to planning with many development plans seriously exceeding their five year review period. Local authorities' planning resources have been unable to cope with the demands placed on them," said Mr Ryan. He credited the introduction of the Planning and Development Act 2000 as addressing many of these issues. "The real solution to the housing challenge is to continue to expand on the supply of housing. This year, we will achieve total housing in excess of 50,000 units for the first time. "The IHBA is calling on local authorities to facilitate the industry in bringing to the market increased levels of affordable housing targeted at average earners and first-time buyers. Increasing residential densities will play a vital role, allowing significant increases in affordable and starter homes," said Mr Ryan. He called for "greater flexibility" in housing strategies and predicted that, without it, the supply of private housing may not expand as required. Mr Ryan highlighted how a two-year planning permission lifetime on applications lodged after the introduction of the Planning and Development Act would have a "serious and negative impact" on housing supply in the medium term. "In an attempt to avoid a rush of applications before Housing Strategies were implemented so as to avoid a requirement for social and affordable housing, the Act has created an impossible situation. Permissions will die unless all external walls are completed in two years. Any initiative that may impact negatively on the supply of housing has no place in the legislation and Government must move quickly to redress this issue," he added. SOCIAL HOUSING The supply of social housing lags behind increases in private housing. The Assessment of Housing Needs 1999 showed that 39,000 households were in need of social housing. However Mr Ryan pointed to the success of a turnkey initiative in Co Cavan where the local authority used their lands to enable the private sector deliver affordable houses. Other schemes where local authorities again invited house builders to use council lands to build integrated developments of social and affordable housing were welcomed by the construction industry. Over 80,000 people are employed in the industry which contributes over £1.7bn to the Exchequer. The IHBA is the representative body for private house builders here and its membership includes 1,500 firms who collectively build around 85pc of the private house completions each year. In the current year, that equates to 41,000 new homes. This year, the construction industry will achieve total housing in excess of 50,000 units for the first time. The Third Bacon Report underlined the need for the industry to produce 54,500 houses per annum rising to 65,000 in 2006 to meet housing demands. The extensive European use of prefabricated products such as internal and external walls, bathrooms, roofs and kitchens was highlighted by architect Tony Reddy at the conference and forwarded as a possible means of keeping pace with the industry's increasing needs. 
