housing
{ David Looby 
    March 02 2019 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/eighty-eight-social-houses-announced-for-rathnew-37857676.html }
Eighty-eight new homes have been announced for Rathnew, with 67 more social houses being built in the village this summer. Wicklow TD Minister Simon Harris announced yesterday (Tuesday) that 88 new homes will be provided for social housing in the Rathnew area through a government scheme. Mr Harris confirmed that there will be 88 new social housing homes in a development of 144 units (houses/apartments) at Hazelbrook Rise, Rathnew.  The Department of Housing and Local Government offers financial support to approved housing bodies in the form of a long-term loan under the Capital Advance Leasing Facility (CALF) to assist with the financing of the construction or acquisition of units which will be provided for social housing use. This loan facility can support up to 30 per cent of the eligible capital cost of the project, where the units will be provided under long-term lease arrangements (and funded by the SHCEP) to local authorities for social housing use. Making the announcement, Minister Simon Harris said: 'I am really pleased to confirm that 88 new social housing homes will be delivered in Rathnew through the CALF scheme - a Rebuilding Ireland measure established to assist approved housing bodies in purchasing houses to be leased for social housing. These 88 houses will be part of a 144-unit development. Fifteen of the 88 new social housing homes will be delivered through the Part V planning requirements - a measure in place to ensure housing developments have a healthy balance of housing.' He said this is one of a number of projects currently being undertaken by Wicklow County Council and its partners in the approved housing body sector through the Government's Rebuilding Ireland plan.  'We know there is serious pressure on our local housing stock in Co Wicklow so it is really important that new housing is coming on stream for both private and social housing. I will continue to work with my cabinet colleagues and Wicklow County Council to ensure we sustainably develop our Wicklow housing stock.' Meanwhile, construction on the first phase of a 67-house scheme on land along Hawkstown relief road will begin this summer. The Administrative Officer in the Housing Section of Wicklow County Council, David Porter confirmed to this newspaper that the scheme has gone through Part VIII planning, with tenders due in next week. Mr Porter said: 'We would expect works to begin in the summer on the initial portion of these affordable houses.' Wicklow County Council is building the social houses in Rathnew to address the growing waiting list for local authority housing.  The planned estate will consist of 46 two-bed houses and 21 three-bed houses, all of which will be two-storey. Wicklow People 
