housing
{  
    June 08 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/localnotes/planning-in-fingal-27784636.html }
FINGAL COUNTY COUNCIL PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 26/05/00: Humbolt Ltd., 1 Stokes Place, Dublin 2, for development comprising approx. 17,636 sq. m. enterprise and employment floor space for office use including the handling and processing of information, research and development of products, and science and technology based processes; all in seven buildings ranging in height from three to four storeys: 678 car parking spaces including 14 spaces for mobility impaired persons; 56 parking spaces for motorcycles and 126 bicycle spaces: bus lay-by; site development and landscape works; all on a site of some 2.1 hectares at Swords Business Park, Swords, Co. Dublin. Arthur Ring and Sons Ltd., Unit 48, Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13, for Retention of new and relocated offices and canteen area within the existing building including minor elevational changes at Unit 48, Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13.. Ms. Lorraine Lowndes, 31 St. Columba's Rise, Swords, Co. Dublin, to erect a 3 bedroom house at rear.no. 31, St. Columba's Rise, Swords, Co. Dublin. Arthur Ring & Co. Ltd., Unit 48, Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13, for additional workshop space in a single storey lean-to structure to the rear and side of their premises including the relocation of vehicular entrances and car parking spaces and the provision of additional spaces at Unit 48 Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13. Matthew Magrane, Kitchenstown, Naul, Co. Dublin, for new shop front, office and two one bedroom dwelling units at no. 7 Bridge Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Seamus Davis, Borranstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for new bungalow and septic tank at Borranstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin. D. Nolan, 23 Forest Court, River Valley, Swords, Co. Dublin, to alter the house type at site 321, Road 17 of the approved development (under permission F98A/0290) at the housing development at lands accessed from the distibutor road at Glen Ellan, Jugback Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin. Movie Magic, Unit 2A Swords Business Park, Swords, Co. Dublin, for retention of internal alterations including provision of mezzanine at Unit 1(B) Swords Business Park at Unit 1(b) Swords Business Park, Swords, Co. Dublin. K. Deering, Rustic Lodge, Carrick Hill, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for minor modifications to approved plans (F99A/1045) for new rear entrance from upper level, conversion and extension of garage to family accommodation, the creation of a gallery link, minor works and extension of driveway and car park area to rear at 21 Carrickbrack Road, Sutton South, Dublin 13. J. Stafford, Killeen, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for revised house type on previously approved site reg. ref. no. F98A/1027 at Killeen, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Station Construction, Connasbeth, Fairyhouse Road, Dunboyne, Co. Meath, for erection of four 2 storey dwellings, incorporating revisions to site nos. 48, 49 and 50, under previously approved development reg. ref. F99A/0966 at Mooretown, Rathbeale, Swords, Co. Dublin. W. Clarke, 49 Marian Park, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission for two storey dwelling at side at 49 Marian Park, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin. G. Reddin, 11A Balbriggan Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for ancillary single storey storage room at rear of existing shop at 66 Strand Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Island Associates Limited, 77 Merrion Square, Dublin 2, for change of use of part of light industrial/office use to call centre/direct marketing facility/fulfilment services facility/data processing/information technology/ software development/science and technology/research and development/office units, incorporating new toilets, new 2 storey entrance foyer and escape stair well, alterations to facade and associated site works to mezzanine level, Unit 4, gridlines E-F and 23-26 at Swords Business Park at unit 4, 23-26 Swords Business Campus, Balheary Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Moriarty Holdings Ltd., Unit 15 Palmerstown Shopping Centre, Palmerstown, Dublin 20, for A.T.M. installation to the main facade at 47/49 Drogheda Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Joan McCormack, 23 Swords Manor Way, Swords, Co. Dublin, for extension of opening hours of existing playschool facility at 23 Swords Manor Way, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. J. D. Bell, Bremore, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to erect bungalow and domestic garage with connection to public services also new entrance at Bremore, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Homeloans, C & G Financial Services, 13 Main Street, Ashbourne, Co. Meath, for Change of use of ground-floor office to retail and erect an advertising sign to front at site bounded by rear of nos. 3 & 4 Main Street, Swords, and side of no.. 7 Bridge Street, Swords at rear of nos. 3 & 4 Main Street, Swords, and side of no. 7 Bridge Street, Swords, Co. Dublin. P. Counihan, Newland, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for 3 no. dormer houses at Grange, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin. Joe & Suzanna Murray, 22 St. Colmcille Drive, Swords, Co. Dublin, for proposed new detached dormer bungalow at "Mantua", Seatown Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mrs. S. Callan, 41 Meadowbrook Avenue, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for (1) build a 2 storey terraced house to the side; (2) provide vehicular parking double gateway access; (3) dish footpath to the front at 41 Meadowbrook Avenue, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. Mr. G. Ryan, Linn Beag, Rush, Co. Dublin, for bungalow to rear of residence at Linn Beag, Rush, Co. Dublin. DHL International (Ireland) Ltd.. Cargo Terminal 2, Dublin Airport, for new back lit signage at the shop front level to the Malahide Road elevation and to "the gut" pedestrian access elevation, and high level signage on the corner of Malahide Road and "the gut" at no. 3 Malahide Road, Swords at no. 3 Malahide Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Paul Garland, "The Village Laundry", Strand Street, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for proposed extension to rear, alterations to front to include 2 no. new shop fronts and 2 no. new apartments at first floor level at "The Village Laundry" Strand Street Malahide Co. Dublin. Peter and Celine Costello, "Innisfail", Old Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for alterations to approved plans to demolish and reconstruct original cottage in modern construction at "Innisfail", Drumnigh Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Ben Lawn Construction, 18 Muckross Green, Perrystown, Dublin 12, for two storey four bedroom detached house and detached garage with off street parking for two vehicles adjoining no. 2 Beverton Grove., Turvey Avenue, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Niall Carberry, Adamstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and proprietary wastewater treatment system with percolation/irrigation area and associated site works at Adamstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin. David Grant, c/o Harp Inn Pub, North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin, for alterations and additions to previously approved development with retail unit (Reg. Ref. F98A/0201) comprising conversion of previously approved attic space to 8 no. two bedroom apartments and minor changes to elevations comprising the addition of dormer windows to previously approved slated profile at Harp Inn, North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin. D. & M. Grant, c/o Harp Inn Pub, North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin, for minor alterations to previously approved elevations to residential development with with retail unit (Reg. Ref. F98A/0201) at The Harp Inn, North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin.. Mrs. Phil Brohoon, 48 Seapark, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission is sought for a detached two storey house of 154 sq.m. on the corner site of 48 Seapark, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Amanda Harper, 58 Chapelgate, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for construction of dormer bungalow at Cullenhill, Balrothery, Co. Dublin. Charles Gallen &Co.Ltd./Stillman Bldg.Contr Georges Hill, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for Mixed use development, with 113 residential units, of 2 sites in Balbriggan of circa 0.79 hectares bounded by Drogheda Street, Mill Street, Railway Street and Convent Lane to comprise of 9 buildings; 3 storey Block A onto Railway Street consisting of 4 three bedroom townhouses, 1 three bedroom house and 1 two bedroom duplex apartment; 2 storey Block B consisting of 3 two bedroom townhouses; 4 storey Block C consisting of 8 two bedroom duplex apartments, 12 two bedroom apartments over 183 sq.m. retail, 3/4 storey Block D consisting of 5 screen cinema complex, 62 sq.m. retail, 4 one bedroom apartments, 15 two bed apartments and 2 three bedroom apartments; 17 one bedroom apartments, 22 two bedroom apartments and 12 three bedroom apartments over 2 levels car parking, providing 166 parking spaces, in 3 4/7 storey blocks including 81 sq.m. retail and 355 sq.m. office space over 2 storeys onto Mill Street, 4 storey apartment block onto Convent Lane consisting demolition of existing garage and construction of 2 studio apartments, 4 one bedroom apartments and 6 two bedroom apartments; change of use and alterations of existing list 2 Mill Complex to 229 sq.m. museum, 165 sq.m. shop, 52 sq.m. tourist information centre, 462 sq.m. public house and 231 sq.m. restaurant, demolition of extension and lift to side of mill and construction of new 4 storey extension comprising of 42sq.m. retail on the ground floor and kitchens and storage on the 3 upper floors, demolition of 2 habitable houses, extinguishment of right of way on George's Hill, landscaping and all development works necessary thereto. An Environmental Impact Statement is included with this application at Georges Hill, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Evode Industries Ltd, Newtown, Swords, Co. Dublin, for Warehouse extension, a new entrance lobby, including a canopy and a new assembly hall at the front of their premises at Newtown, Swords, Co. Dublin. Kinane Developments Ltd., 2 Prospect Court, Prospect Avenue, Glasnevin, Dublin 9, for revisions to approved site nos. 92 and 93 incorporating Amended boundaries, relocation of house no. 93 and additional garages to both the minor revisions to road access at Beverton Lawn, Turvey Avenue, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Tower Homes, Skerries Rock, Balbriggan Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for retention of alterations to previous permission (Ref. F99A/0291) to include for minor revisions to plans and elevations of previously approved 14 no. 3 bed end of terrace and 14 no. 2 bed mid terrace, two storey houses in 7 blocks/4 houses long at sites numbered 138-145 and 148-167 Kelly's Bay at 138-145 and 148-167 Kelly's Bay, lands at Balbriggan Road, Skerries, Adjacent Kelly's Lane, and Rail Line. John Doran, Rathlittle, Naul, Co. Dublin, for alterations to approved house to include raising of rear wall, to first floor eaves level, change in design to rear pitched roof, proposed conservatory internal alterations at Rathlittle, Naul, Co. Dublin. MKN Properties Ltd., The Pavillion, 276 Howth Road, Dublin 5, for change of house type from 2 no. two bed end terrace units to 2 no. 3 bed end terrace units on site nos. 13 and 22 of end terrace units on site nos. 13 and 22 of permitted development reg. ref. F99A/0410 at Ridgewood, Rathingle, Swords, Co. Dublin. M. O'Brien, 26 Highfield Crescent, Swords, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow, garage, new entrance and biocycle treatment plant at Streamstown, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Orla Duff, Naul, Co. Dublin, for approval for new bungalow on already approved site (Ref. F99A/0691) at Westown, Naul, Co. Dublin. Katherine O'Connor, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow and bio-disc unit at Matt Lane, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Lorcan O'Brien, Church Road, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for new dormer bungalow and septic tank treatment system at Doles Road, Garristown, Co. Dublin. J. & C. Ratcliffe, Shallon, The Ward, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow, garage and biocycle unit at Newpark, The Ward, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. Donal Hussey & Sheila Sugrue, 27 Kileen Avenue, Swords Road, Malahide, Co.Dublin., for 2 storey detached house comprising kitchen/dining, utility, living room, family room, conservatory and 4 no. bedrooms, one en suite to the side at 194 Seapark, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Devey Healthcare Ltd., Devlin Lodge, Gormanstown, Co. Meath, for erection of a two storey, 72 bed nursing home and the renovation of the existing grade 2 listed house to provide administrative support including site works, drainage (discharge licence will be required), sewage treatment system, site access, and landscaping on a 14 acre site at Doolaghs Park, Malahide Road, Balgriffin, Dublin 17. D. Butterly, Newbridge Avenue, Donabate, Co.Dublin, for single storey kitchen, dining, family room, utility, toilet, bedroom and bathrooms, extension, garage and effluent treatment plant at Newbridge Avenue, Donabate, Co. Dublin. E. Blaney, Sutton House, Shielmartin Road, Sutton, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to include one bedroom granny flat extension and two bedroom extension to main house at 71 Offington Park, Sutton, Dublin 13. Mr. & Mrs. Dennis Mulhall, 98 Grace O'Malley Road, Dublin 13, for single storey kitchen/dining extension to side of house at 98 Grace O'Malley Road, Dublin 13. Michael McCabe, 11 Melesian Court, Feltrim Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, to construct a first floor extension above the existing kitchen and family room incorporating 2 bedrooms and changing an existing bedroom to a bathroom at 11 Melesian Court, Feltrim Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. L. Adams, 15 Castle Cove, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for bedroom extension over existing garage converted to playroom to side gable at 15 Castle Cove, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Derek Owens, 36 Oak Grove, Royal Oak, Santry, Dublin 9, for 1st floor extension to side and conservatory to rear at 36 Oak Grove, Royal Oak, Santry, Dublin 9. Gannon Homes Ltd., 41-43 Shelbourne Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4, for retention of garden walls at 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 The Park; 7 The Avenue, 17, 22 The Villa; 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 23, 24, 26, 28, 30 The Drive at Melrose Park, Swords, Co. Dublin. P. Hughes, 18 Moyclare Close, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, to build a bay window and porch to the front at 18 Moyclare Close, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin. Rhonda Jones, Flemington Lane, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for retention of attic conversion with 4 no. roof lights to rear and window to gable side elevation to dwelling at Flemington Lane, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. David & Mary Brown, 24 Sutton Downs, Dublin 13, for proposed new first floor extension to the side of house, extend existing sunroom at rear of house and alterations to rear of house and alterations to existing front porch roof at 24 Sutton Downs, Dublin 13. N. Whelan, Old Barrack Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for alterations and first floor dormer extension to house to include granny flat at Old Barrack Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. L. Hazzard, 15 Brookdale Park, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to side and porch extension to front at 15 Brookdale Park, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin. B. Murphy, Sundrive Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for retention of stonework and brick finish to front elevation of dormer dwelling at Sundrive Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Andrew and Ruth Haire, 3 Waterside Crescent, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for conversion of garage to extended kitchen and utility area and extended front to accommodate new toilet with main entrance moved from the side and now located to the front at 3 Waterside Crescent, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. G. & P. Rogan, 33 Offington Lawn, Sutton, Dublin 13, for single storey extension to side and rear, accommodation to include 2 no. bathrooms ensuite, walk-in wardrobe, and dressing room at 33 Offington Lawn, Sutton, Dublin 13. Mr. & Mrs. E. Chow, Cill Mhuire, Thormanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for new driveway entrance, garden shed and conservatory at rear, dormer and two storey extension to front, side & rear at Cill Mhuire, Thormanby Road, Howth, Co Dublin. Peter O'Melia 10 Ashfield Rise, Bremore, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for retention of single-storey structure to rear of existing dwelling at 10 Ashfield Rise, Bremore, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. J. & M. Hahesy, 2 Seabury Heights, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for alterations to existing dwelling house consisting of kitchen extension and provision of new first floor level throughout at 61 Yellow Walls Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. D. & M. Campbell, 4 Craoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for side and rear two storey extension to two storey dwelling house at 4 Craoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Amanda Doherty & David Nangle, 38 St. Nessan's Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension at the rear at split level to existing, and new entrance and revised fenestration at 38 St. Nessan's Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin. D. O'Keeffe, 21 Rivervalley Grove, Swords, Co. Dublin, single storey domestic extension to the front and side and ancillary work at 21 Rivervalley Grove, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. O'Reilly, 4 Strand Road, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for construction of porch with hipped roof to front at 4 Strand Road, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. Sean Campbell, The Ward, Co. Dublin, to erect bay window extensions to two front rooms of house at The Ward, Co. Dublin. Helen Mannix, 43 Bayside Square West, Sutton, Dublin 13, for extension to rear and side of premises at 43 Bayside Square West, Sutton, Dublin 13. Hugo Byrne, St. Anne's, Cloghran, Co. Dublin, for change of use of Units 1 and 7 from agricultural to industrial and related uses (723 sq.m); retention of existing office in Unit 1 (56 sq. m.); retention of change of use of Units 3, 4, 5 and 6 from agricultural to industrial and related uses (1,598 sq. m); permission for new internal offices in Units 4, 5, 6 and 7 (224 sq.m); additional area of hard standing incorporating car parking spaces; water storage tank with associated watermains and services; foul drainage systemwith proprietary wastewater treatment plant and percolation area, surface water drainage system with oil interceptor and attenuation pond with soakway trenches and overflow system, landscaping and ancillary development works at townland of Ballymun, St. Ann's, Ballymun, Dublin 11. Roughan Properties Ltd., O'Sheas, The Harbour, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for demolition of three houses (Fishermans Cottage 34 and White House, Seapoint Lane) and construction of 33 two bedroom and 7 one bedroom apartments (in three storey block) two levels of covered car parking for 76 cars to serve apartments and O'Sheas Public House, private open space, site walls and paving on site of 3 houses and plot adjacent to railway viaduct at O'Sheas Public House, Balbriggan Harbour, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Mr. F. Russell, 10 Braemore, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and garage at rear with vehicular access off Skerries Road, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin at Skerries Road, Skerries, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. O'Brien Godfrey, 232 Mellifont Park, Drogheda, Co. Louth, for dormer bungalow with septic tank and puraflo waste water treatment system at Tobergreen, Garristown, Co. Dublin. LIST OF DECISIONS MADE FROM 22/05/2000 TO 26/05/2000 Decisions to GRANT PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Liz Anne Moore, Ashpark, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for bungalow detached garage biocycle unit percolation area and associated ground works at back road upper commons at Upper Commons, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Seamus Gilhooly, 155 Briar Walk, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for proposed new two storey detached house, new driveway, ntrance piers and gates, new pedestrian access gate to side at 155 Briar Walk, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Eastern Health Board, Dr. Steeven's Hospital, Steeven's Lane, Dublin 8, for change of use of dwelling house to high support hostel and to replace existing septic tank with a Biodisc waste Water Treatment System at Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Mr. P. Flanagan, Siam Thai Restaurant, Gas Yard. Malahide. Co. Dublin, for construction of an extension to the Siam Thai Restaurant at Gas Lane, Malahide, Co.Dublin. S. & B. McCaghy, Coolquoy Lodge, The Ward, Dublin 2, for single storey pitched roof extension to bar, restaurant and function hall, extended yard storage, boundary railings and site works at Coolquoy Lodge, The Ward, Co. Dublin. Breda Meyrick, 1 Seabury Crescent, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for proposed new special purpose 2 storey 3 bedroomed detached house to site of 1 Seabury Crescent at 1 Seabury Crescent, Malahide, Co. Dublin. R. Keane, 47 Windmill Avenue, Swords, Co. Dublin, to erect detached dwelling house at rear of 47 Windmill Avenue, Swords with entrance opening onto Windmill Rise at 47 Windmill Avenue, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. Joe McNally (McNally Joinery Ltd.), Walshestown, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for replacement building/extension to existing joinery workshop at Tooman, Walshestown, Lusk, Co. Dublin. T. Benzies, 21 Carrickhill Close, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, to extend porch and garage to front of house and construct bedroom, toilet over garage area at 21 Carrickhill Close, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. F. Murray, 1 Balheary Cottages, Swords, Co. Dublin, to erection of a rear single storey extension at 1 Balheary Cottages, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. D. Brady, 13 Abbeyvale Close, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension with lounge, kitchen and utility to the rear and side at 13 Abbeyvale Close, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. Alan Berg, Raheny, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for boathouse at Raheny, Lusk, Co. Dublin. C. Pitcher, 6 Tudor Court, Seabury, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for bedroom extension over existing study and kitchen and attic conversion to storage space at 6 Tudor Court, Seabury, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. G. Leonard, Skerries Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for single storey extensions to front and rear of house at Skerries Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Mr. Richard Webster, 17 Muldowney Court, Malahide, Co. Dublin, to erect a conservatory extension at 17 Muldowney Court, Malahide, Co. Dublin. J. M. Monks, The Rath, Swords, Co. Dublin, for new separate double garage at the side of existing dwelling at The Rath, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. B. Morgan, 74 Seatown Villas, Swords, Co.Dublin, for single storey granny flat to the side and a single storey extension to the rear at 74 Seatown Villas, Swords, Co. Dublin. Brian & Grainne O'Shea, 160 Sutton Park, Dublin 13, for widening of existing vehicular entrance, garage conversion and porch to front with new kitchen extension to rear at 160 Sutton Park, Dublin 13. Patrick and Roisin Hughes, Rowans, Lusk, Co. Dublin. for dwelling house, horse stables and septic tank with puraflo waste water treatment system at Rowans Little, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Morris and Fiona Ward, The Brook, Racehill, Ashbourne, Co. Meath, to erect a four bed farmhouse residence with septic tank and puraflo effluent treatment system at Borranstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Albany Homes Ltd., Top Floor, Estuary House, New Street, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for alterations to part of approved layout and development works (on and off site) and change of house types (Reg. Ref. F98A/0355) to give 402 no. dwellings (362 no. two storey houses, 128 no. two bed terraced houses, 129 no. three bed terraced houses, 102 no. three bed semi detached houses, 3 no. 3 bed detached houses and 40 no. two bed apartments in 10. no. two storey blocks) in lieu of 298 no. two storey houses (215 no. four bed houses) and 83 no. three bed houses) at lands Northwest of Glenellan Housing Estate, Swords, Co. Dublin. Island Associates Limited, 14 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, for proposed change of use of part of light industrial/office use to call centre/direct marketing facility/fulfilment services facility/data processing/information technology/software development/science and technology/research and development/office units, incorporating new toilets, roof lights, new entrance foyer, alterations to facade and associated site works to unit 4, Swords Business Campus, Balheary Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. David Feenan, 3 Seabury Grove, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for attic conversion to provide storage space with 1 no. rooflight, construction of a new bedroom/bathroom over existing hip roof, and for the construction of an additional ground floor room to rear (the latter to be used for commercial childcare activities at 3 Seabury Grove, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Barry Moore, 5 Brookfield Park, Rush, Co. Dublin, to construct two storey extension to the side incorporating new kitchen, dining room, utility room and bedroom at ground floor and two bedrooms over also entrance gate to side at 5 Brookfield Park, Rush, Co. Dublin. Requests for CLARIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications:- Mr. & Mrs. J. Patton, Harristown Lane, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, to retain and complete dwelling partially constructed under reg. ref. F93A/0066 using independent drainage treatment system and entrance. Permission is also sougt for waste water treatment system to service existing house at Harristown Lane, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. Requests for ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications:- S. Manley, 63 Admiral Park, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for provision of full day care facility at 42A Grange Road, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. O. Thorne, Santa Ponza, Sandy Lane, Rush, Co. Dublin, to construct a 4 bedroom bungalow at Ballest Park, Sandy Lane, Rush, Co. Dublin. Overstone Ltd., 59 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, for amendment to previously approved residential development (F99A/0712) to incorporate enlargement of the overall site to provide an additional 20 duplex apartments with the consequential omission of a pair of approved semi detached houses and the repositioning of house no. 2 all on Boroimhe Oaks, plus change of house type. on site numbers 2 and 24 Boroimhe Willows at Site nos. 4-22 (even numbers) Boroimhe Willows Fosterstown North, Swords, Co. Dublin. Terence Dockrell, Man-O-War, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for new 4 bedroom bungalow with propitiatory waste treatment system and associated percolation area and new entrance, drive and gates at Woodpark, Lusk, Co. Dublin. T. Squires, Milverton, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for conversion of existing disused cottage into traditional Irish cottage, septic tank and puraflo treatment system and associated works at Milverton, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Decisions to REFUSE OUTLINE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Mr. R. Maguire, Skyhill, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for for outline permission for new bungalow, entrance, gates and driveway and new proprietary waste treatment system and association percolation area at site no. 1 Killossery, Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin, . Mr. J. McGuire, Skyhill, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for new bungalow, entrance, gates and driveway and new proprietary waste treatment system and associated percolation area at site no. 2 Killossery, Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin. Ms. M. Lynch, "Lynbyrne", Killeek, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for single storey bungalow, and septic tank together with removal of trees and replanting new trees together with new driveway entrance and garage, demolition of existing shed at Lynbyrne, Killeek, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. Decisions to REFUSE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Ms. Edwina Keely,1 Rathbeale Cottages, Swords, Co. Dublin, for 1 storey split level bungalow at side at 1 Rathbeale Cottages, Rathbeale Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. William Halligan, 93 Bath Road, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to construct a 3 bedroomed bungalow with biocycle unit at Closheen Lane, Balscadden, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. P. Durnan, Killougher, Naul, Co. Dublin, for farm buildings and dwelling with biological sewage unit at Killougher, Naul, Co. Dublin. S. O'Riordan, Castlefarm, Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow and biocycle unit at Castlefarm, Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin. E. O'Riordan, Castlefarm, Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow and biocycle unit at Castlefarm, Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin. S. O'Riordan, Castlefarm, Killsallaghan, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow and biocycle unit at Castlefarm, Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin. Requests for Site Notice in accordance with Article 16 of the Local Government (Planning and Development) Regulations 1994 were made in respect of the following applications:- Moloney Developers & Builders Ltd., Tralee, Co. Kerry, to extend new road and add five detached two storey houses to current development plan ref. F99A/0527 at Northcliff Heights, Skerries, Co. Dublin. T. Keegan, 70 Orlynn Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for alterations to previously approved dwelling (Reg. Ref. F98A/0401) comprising changes to elevations at "Milverton", Skerries, Co. Dublin. Requests for TIME EXTENSIONS in accordance with Section 26(4a) of the Local Government (Planning & Development) Act, 1963 as amended by Section 39(f) of the Local Government (Planning & Development) Act, 1976 were submitted and accepted in respect of the following applications:- Agnew Bros. Ltd, 468 Strand Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for first floor extension comprising of 4 no. two bedroom apartments, 3 no. one bedroom apartments and a surgery ground floor extension comprising of new retail unit and access stairs to first floor, and change of use from existing ground floor retail unit to staircase and storage area at Feltrim Shopping Centre, Drynam, Swords, Co. Dublin. Rayband Ltd., Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin, for for an industrial development of fifteen industrial units, road infrastructure including a roundabout on the N1 providing an industrial access to the east, and agricultural access to the west. Services including foul sewer pumping stations and appropriate enabling works. The industrial units comprise:- Type A B1 unit of 2,217.6 sq. metres, types B and C B1 units of 1,425.6sq. metres each, types D and E of 2,138.4 sq. metres each, types F, G, H, J, M, and N of 1,110 sq. metres each, types K and L of 960 sq. metres each, type P of 1,560 sq. metres type Q of 7,160 sq. metres at Lissenhall, Co. Dublin Fingleton White & Company Ltd, Bridge Street Centre, Portlaoise, Co. Laois, for proposed control building and ancillary pipework. This proposal is to be carried out in association with a dedicated aviation fuel pipeline, from Dublin Port to Dublin Airport. The route of the proposed pipeline will be located in the following areas: Branch Road North, Tolka Quay Road, East Wall Road, Alfie Byrne Road, Fairview Park, Fairview, Marino Mart, Marino Park Avenue, Marino Park, Croydon Park Avenue, Croydon Terrace, Giffith Avenue, Swords Road, Airport Service Road at Aviation Fuel Storage Terminal, Dublin Airport, Swords, Co. Dublin. Turckton Developments Ltd., Earlsfort Centre, Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin 2, for development consisting of 5 no. warehouse units,with a total area of 20,997 square metres, each unit including ancillary two storey office accommodation; entrance roadway off the R108, with main sign and control barrier and kiosk; estate roadway; car and truck parking areas; loading yards and loading docks; water supply; foul sewer/foul pumping station; surface water drainage; site development and landscape works; perimeter fencing and site lighting; central fire-fighting water tanks. All on a site of 9.583 hectares at Harristown. The development includes service wayleave at Harristown and including route through adjacent townlands of Sillogue, Coulty and Collinstown, for site services and connection to existing sewer, and underground water supply route at Harristown and including route through adjacent townland of Shanganhill to public mains. The development includes a secondary sign facing Ballymun Road in the adjacent townland of Ballymun. All in County Dublin at lands at Harristown, Co. Dublin. The following applications were WITHDRAWN Mr. Christy Dowler, 5 Hilltown Green, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin, for erection of new 2 storey 3 bedroom detached house to side and new vehicular entrance to front at 13 Hilltown Lawn, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin. DECISIONS OF AN BORD PLEANALA: APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission. COUNCILS DECISION: GRANT PERMISSION. LOCATION: The Square, Skerries, Co. Dublin.PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Demolition of existing factory and ancillary offices; evised plans to provide residential development comprising of 7 no. 2 storey 2 bedroom townhouses; 11 no. on curtilage surface parking spaces; repositioning, widening and improvement of existing vehicular access off the square; increase in height of existing chimney stack to house no. 21 The Square; site development and landscape works on existing shirt factory site of approx. 885 sq.m. APPLICANT: Seagoat Limited. APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission. COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION. LOCATION: Sundrive Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Dormer bungalow with garage and ancillary works. APPLICANT: E. Kearns. APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission. COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION. LOCATION: Furzewold, Thormanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: single storey house at rear. APPLICANT: L. Finnegan. APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission. COUNCILS DECISION: GRANT PERMISSION. LOCATION: 38 Dunsoghly Avenue, Ratoath Road, Finglas, Dublin 11. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: demolition of existing garage and the construction of a 2 storey creche/daycare centre to the side.APPLICANT: Moorview Developments Ltd. APPEALS NOTIFIED BY AN BORD PLEANALA DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: Mr. J. Connolly, Naul Bridge, Naul, Co. Dublin, for demolition of 3 no. unlisted single storey ruined stone structures, previously stores and stables, and for reconstruction/change of use from old watermill to no. 4 no. apartments of currently derelict 4 storey List 2 stone building (3 no. 2 bedroom and 1 no. 1 bedroom units), and for construction of 6 no. dwelling units comprising of one cluster of 4 no. linked 2/3 storey units and one (abutting the watermill) of 2 no. linked 2 storey units, overall provision of 21 no. car spaces, upgraded site boundary treatment, new entrance serving all units on site including recently extended Mill House, and associated siteworks and services. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: Floraville Nurseries, Floraville Nurseries, Kinsaley Lane, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for alterations to existing storage/office building including recladding of the facade; installation of new windows; subdivision of the building into four units and change of use of Science and Technology/Tele-Sales Light Industrial. DECISION GRANT PERMISSION: McDermot & O'Farrell, Unidare, Site E Jamestown Buisiness Park, St. Margarets Road, Finglas, Dublin 11, for alterations to Block 4 (Units 7, 8, 9 and 10) previously approved under Grant of Permission Ref. No. F97A/0236 to include an increase in height of 2 metres and adjustments to elevations. 
