housing
{ Fintan LAmbe 
    April 28 2017 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/news/council-has-very-little-land-left-for-social-houses-35649902.html }
It has emerged that Wexford County Council has 'very little' land left in Gorey town for building social housing. The housing department's plan to provide an additional 717 social houses under various schemes in the next three years, came under close scrutiny at last week's Gorey Municipal District meeting, as the Councillors felt it would be difficult to find houses to buy or rent, such are the pressures of demand. Cllr Malcolm Byrne wasn't convinced the plan showed an understanding of the property market in Gorey. 'We need the Council to start building houses in Gorey,' he said, pointing to the fact the Council plans to build 182 houses in the Wexford District in the next three years, and only 19 in the Gorey District. 'The Council will have to look at purchasing land and building,' he said.  He said that the demographic trends in Gorey show a younger population which will lead to a greater  demand for housing. He added that the expected houses to be provided through Part V regulations where developers of estates hand over a percentage of houses, will depend on how quickly the developments take off. 'As a proportion of housing stock, we have only 14 per cent,' he said. 'It doesn't say to me Gorey is a priority.' Cllr Joe Sullivan appreciated the housing department was making the effort, but pointed to the projected rental figure. 'That is not going to happen,' he said. 'The current HAP rate is half the going rate.' He asked how much of a land bank the Council has for building houses. Cllr John Hegarty said that if the Council couldn't find properties in Gorey to house refugees, he didn't believe it was realistic to expect houses would be found for rental.  'I understand the will is there, but there are different circumstances here in Gorey,' he said, adding that the council should CPO land if necessary. Padraig O'Gorman of the housing department explained that the Council has more land available to build houses in Wexford, and they will have to look at purchasing more land in Gorey as there is 'very little' available. 'We will have to look at acquiring land but it's a question of budget,' he said. 'Getting serviced land is difficult. We will buy one, two or three plots of land in Co Wexford to build on by 2019.' Cllr Robbie Ireton commented that 34 houses and a major land bank in Riverchapel were offered to the council several times, and they were eventually sold to a private buyer. He added that the Church has a lot of land, and the Council should work with the Church to provide land for housing. The council has been buying some houses. 'We have run into problems purchasing housing with the threshold we have,' said Mr O'Gorman, but he was confident with the rental figures with the new thresholds coming in. 'We're purchasing 100 houses around the county,' he stated. 'The Gorey District got its fair share, but not in Gorey town. We picked up a few but not as many as we would like.' 'The figures are not adding up for us,' commented Cllr Pip Breen. Cllr Anthony Donohoe encouraged the Council to be more proactive and to approach owners of zoned land to see if they are willing to sell some of it. Mr O'Gorman replied that they will talk to anyone who approaches them. Cllr Byrne pointed out that Gorey is getting €3.2 million from the Council's €45 million construction budget. 'The problem is available ground,' repeated Padraig. 'Our planning figures are all projections, and we will see continued growth in the population,' commented Cllr Byrne. 'We've a younger population here and greater demand for housing. Council housing policy is not understanding the issue here. We need to be able to set aside a sum of money to acquire land.' District director Annette O'Neill explained that the Council's housing stock will increase through Part V and acquisitions, and it's quicker to get turnkey houses into stock rather than greenfield sites. She said it's more efficient to buy houses rather than building them. Cllr Hegarty repeated his point that it's more difficult to buy houses in Gorey. Gorey Guardian 
