housing
{  
    January 31 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/sport/other-sports/ardee-club-get-go-ahead-for-26908368.html }
Planning permission has been granted to St. Marys GFC for a 60m x 30m all weather pitch and six 10 metre high columns at their grounds Pairc Mhuire, Drogheda Road, Ardee. This is among the planning decisions made by Louth County Council from 4th to 10th January. Permission granted to Breffni O’Rourke, Drumcamill, Channonrock for extension to retail unit to include display showroom, store, office, toilets, septic tank system and associated site works at Drumcamill. Permission granted to Donna McGuiggan, Ferry Hill, Omeath for a bungalow, septic tank system, domestic garage and associated site works at Ferry Hill. Permission granted to M. McCourt, Edenakill, Dundalk for a house, domestic garage and waste water treatment plant (WWTP) at Short Stone East, Hackballscross. Permission granted to Adrian Bothwell, Grange Old, Carlingford for demolition of house and completion of work carried out to date under 01/389 of house and associated site works at Grange Old. Permission granted to Liam and Annette Quigley, Plaster, Faughart for attic conversion and alterations to house at Plaster. Permission granted to Sean Kerr, Chapel Road, Haggardstown for domestic garage at Chapel Road, Haggardstown. Permission granted to John and Angela Daly, Richmond Cottage, Rock Road, Blackrock for alteration and extension to front of house, including new roof and dormer accommodation over garage at Richmond Cottage. Permission granted to M. Sheeran and P. Ryan, 60 Riverview, Mell, Drogheda for house, garage, effluent treatment system and all associated site works at Piperstown, Ballymakenny. Outline permission granted to David McGuinness, Rinnwood, Coolcreedan, Louth P.O. for house, septic tank and associated site works at Coolcreedan. Permission granted to Jim McNamee, 4 Burton Hall, Tullyallen for one and half storey house, biocycle WWTS and all associated site works at Keeverstown, Dunleer. Permission granted to Glen Carruthers, c/o Joseph Casey, Tullydonnell, Dunleer for a house, septic tank, WWTP, garage and associated site works at Tullydonnell. Permission granted to Kevin McCoy, Drumbilla, Dundalk for side extension to house, including sun lounge and detached garage to side, at Drumbilla. Permission granted to Andrew Ward, 15 The Priory, West Court, Drogheda for dormer house, garage, septic tank system and associated site works at Togher, Drogheda. Permission granted to Nuala McArdle, Monascreebe, Faughart for front and side extension to house with hip pitched roof and for existing flat roofed area at Monascreebe.  Applications Planning permission sought by Alan Wogan, 1 The Meadows, Blackrock to relocate entrance at same address. Permission sought by Susanne Whelahan, Strand Street, Clogherhead for extension to rear of house and retention of 1st floor living accommodation at Strand Street. Permission sought by Susanne Whelahan, Strand Street, Clogherhead for a townhouse and connect to public sewer at Strand Street. Permission sought by Michael McGinty, 18 Hazel Lane, Drogheda for two-storey house and septic tank at Barnhill Cross, Termonfeckin. Permission sought by E. Grogan, Lismanus, Dunleer for a house, garage, septic tank, WWTS and associated site works at Lismanus. Permission sought by Des and Angela McArdle, Highfield House, 5 Tullywill Road, Cladybeg, Co. Armagh for two-storey house and two metre high boundary walls at Knocknagoran, Omeath. Permission sought by SKG Properties Ltd., 3 The Rise, Dundalk for six terrace two-storey houses and all necessary site works at Newtown, Knockbridge. Permission sought by James Leddy, Ednagreena, Inniskeen for 290m.sq. shed at rear of workshop at Ednagreena. Permission sought by Patrick Rooney, Derrycammagh House, Derrycammagh Lane, Castlebellingham for single storey house, garage, secondary waste filtration system at Derrycammagh. Permission sought by Catherine Loughlin, Rohanmor, New Road, Bellurgan for stone / earth bank along shore front to prevent future flooding of land and house at Rohanmor. Permission sought by Lakeland Dairies Co-op Society Ltd., Station Road, Castlebellingham for lean to store onto existing store at Station Road. Permission sought by Eamon Hoey, Roestown, Ardee for single storey house, vehicular entrance and septic tank at Greenmount, Kilsaran. Permission sought by Sarah Sharkey, 5 Main Street, Clogherhead for house and domestic garage at Harbour Road, Clogherhead. Permission sought by David and Aisling McKeown, 24 St. Ronan’s Terrace, Castletown Road, Dundalk for two storey house, detached dormer garage and septic tank treatment system at Rathduff, Dundalk. Permission sought by Eugene Maguire, Galtrimsland to demolish derelict cottage, construct two-storey house and garage at Galtrimsland. Permission sought by Blackwall Construction Ltd., Mountain View, Sandyford Village, Co. Dublin for modifications to 98/235, change front elevations of houses 26, 27, 32-34, 4no. 4-bedroom, 14no. 4-bedroom semi-detached and 15no. 3-bedroom terrace houses in 5 blocks at Mountain View, Dunleer. Permission sought by Judy McQuillan, Lentigne Cottage, Baltray Road, Termonfeckin to demolish part of rear building and roof, build extension to rear of house comprising livingroom, diningroom, boilerhouse, bedroom extension, insert rooflighting, internal rearrangements and front and rear landscaping at Lentigne Cottage.  Refused Permission refused to Tommy Dowdall, Rathduff, Bridge-a-Crin, Dundalk for storage shed at Rathduff. Permission refused to Derek and Nicole Finnegan, Rockmarshall, Jenkinstown for alterations and new extension to dwelling, close up existing entrance and form new entrance at Rockmarshall. Permission refused to Deirdre Traynor, Raskeagh, Kilcurry for single storey house, vehicular access, effluent treatment system and associated site works at Raskeagh. Permission refused to G. Connor, Nicholastown, Togher for a house, septic tank, percolation area and associated site works at Windmill, Togher. 
