housing
{  
    September 07 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/catalogue-of-misery-for-estate-residents-27364465.html }
 Attempted arson attack on a stolen lawnmower dropped outside house in Cahermoneen at 5 am  presumably to be set alight and pushed under the car. Attempted breakage of front windscreen of car parked out side house in Cahermoneen at 5am. Sunroof of car parked in driveway of house in Cahermoneen smashed with a rock from the garden on night of August 1  Attempted arson attack on a stolen lawnmower dropped outside house in Cahermoneen at 5 am — presumably to be set alight and pushed under the car.  Attempted breakage of front windscreen of car parked out side house in Cahermoneen at 5am.  Sunroof of car parked in driveway of house in Cahermoneen smashed with a rock from the garden on night of August 1 2005. Damage in excess of ?1,000 caused.  Residents of house in Cahermoneen threatened by passerby. Said he would “burn them out”.  Youth wakes residents of four houses after he staggered out drunk from back garden of house in Cahermoneen.  Break in at house in Cahermoneen content to value ?5,000 taken - culprits seen walking away through Gallowsfield.  Several reports of “boy racers’ tearing into the cul de sac in the early hours not associated with any residents of Gallowsfield or Cahermoneen.  Well-known resident of Gallowsfield gained access the porch of house in Cahermoneen at 11pm and attempted to kick in the front door.  Three youths from Gallowsfield repeatedly attacked a dog in the back garden of house in Cahermoneen with an air powered pellet gun and stones.  The mature hedge in the garden of house in Cahermoneen set alight while family at Mass and burned dangerously close to shed containing 450 litre tank of home heating oil.  Residents of house in Cahermoneen could not leave house due to a fight between two Gallowsfield residents, which lasted over 30 minutes.  Two well-known residents of Gallowsfield fought outside house in Cahermoneen culminating with a knife being held to the throat of the female party in full view of several children.  Ford Fiesta burned out at opposite end of walkway in Gallowsfield Estate. This had been parked there the previous evening and is believed to have been involved in attempted break-ins in the area.  Attempted break-ins at numerous houses in Cahermoneen, two youths from outside areas apprehended in garden of house in Cahermoneen  Front patio door of house in Cahermoneen broken by brick.  Attempted break-in at house in Cahermoneen.  Eleven-year-old boy narrowly escape injury when glass from the sitting room window landed on him while he was watching TV at 7.30pm. Four windows in the Cahermoneen were smashed on the same evening.  Car belonging to visitor at house in Cahermoneen set alight at 11.30pm causing extensive damage.  Goods stolen from ESB truck parked outside house in Cahermoneen.  Two youths from Gallowsfield passed through Cahermoneen and threw a bottle at gable wall of house in Cahermoneen.  Gang of 10/12 youths seen loitering and drinking in laneway.  A motorcycle mounted footpath and drove at speed through the laneway.  Three youths, spotted loitering suspiciously, approached by resident and fled to Gallowsfield where they were apprehended by gardaí.  Youth on motorcycle came through walkway from Gallowsfield on three occasions between 3pm and 4pm causing young children from Cahermoneen to run for cover.  Gang of youths congregated at top of Cahermoneen. One arrested for possession of a “joint”.  Empty alcopop bottle thrown at front door of house in Cahermoneen, dented cross-frame of the door.  Youth on boundary wall of house in Cahermoneen violently shook public light pole until light went out.  Bag of household rubbish thrown against patio door of house in Cahermoneen.  Shrubs pulled up in garden of house in Cahermoneen. Some thrown across the road and some at windows of No.83.  Youth aged 16/17 urinated at gate of house in Cahermoneen and exposed himself to young girl from estate.  Stone thrown at front window of house in Gallowsfield and glass panel broken.  Outdoor Christmas decorations pulled from wall of house in Cahermoneen and live wire left on the footpath. 
