housing
{ NOEL DEMPSEY TD 
    November 18 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/how-home-hunters-benefit-from-deal-26132404.html }
There has been much talk about the housing measures which are included in my new Planning and Development Bill which is currently before Seanad Eireann. This is not surprising after all, my proposals are radical. These proposals are further steps in a series of measures which this Government has taken to ensure that more people have a real chance of a home of their own. We have pledged an unprecedented £6bn to social and affordable housing over the next seven years under the National Development Plan. This will ensure that the social housing needs of over 90,000 households will be met over the Plan period. We are providing millions of pounds on water and sewage facilities to open up land for an extra 100,000 houses and we've acted to increase housing density in good quality developments. We are determined to provide, in total, 500,000 new houses over the next ten years. Due to our concerted and sustained efforts, house price increases are slowing down. But more needs to be done. What is in the Bill will greatly reinforce the steps already taken. Everybody agrees that local authorities, especially in the Dublin area, have difficulty in sourcing land for both housing for rent and for affordable housing for sale to those who have found themselves priced out of the housing market due to rising house prices. My Bill tackles this head on by making sure that local authorities will have a greater supply of land. Under the Bill, local authorities will have to draw up Housing Strategies to ensure that sufficient land is zoned to meet the housing needs of the population as a whole and of different sections of the community. Based on an assessment of needs, the authority will then have to decide what proportion of zoned land is required for social or affordable housing (subject to a limit of 20pc of residential land.) This land will then be used to provide different types of housing for these categories. Some of the houses will be local authority rented housing, some will be voluntary housing perhaps for the elderly or the disabled, and some will be affordable housing for people who are on reasonable incomes but who just cannot buy a house in today's market. My proposals will promote a greater mix of different types of housing and more socially integrated communities. Do we really want a society where our citizens are divided between big estates of local authority housing on the one hand and private mansions in secluded developments on the other? This goes against all principles of equality and does not suit us well as a modern European republic. If we continue down that route, the social price our children would be asked to pay would surely be enormous. The Bill has been drafted to ensure that the operation of the provisions does not impact unfairly on builders. For example, it does not have retrospective effect. Builders who bought land before the Bill was published will be paid the same price for their land that they paid for it. Those who buy land from now on will be paid a price for the relatively small part of the land that is transferred to local authority based on its current use. They will, of course, factor this in to what they are prepared to pay for new land in the first place. I ask if this is an unfair requirement considering that land is increased in value by a factor of 10 or even 100 by the act of rezoning? Also, bear in mind that the policy of increased densities is another very relevant factor acting to the advantage of builders and land owners. Doomsday predictions from the house builders of increases in the price of new and secondhand houses on foot of my Bill's provisions are, in my view, misplaced. This will also cause unnecessary anxiety for house hunters. I regret that the house builders have not taken up my offer to work with my Department, within the basic principles of the Bill, in suggesting ways in which the legislation could be amended to alleviate some of the difficulties they perceive. I have also offered to incorporate in the guidance to be given to local authorities on the operation of the provisions whatever practical feedback I get from them. My door is still open, but I am not prepared to go back on the basic policies which the Government has already decided on and which have been supported across the political divide. This Bill, the £6bn investment in social and affordable housing under the National Development Plan, increased housing densities and all the other measures this Government has taken give a real prospect of a better future for house hunters.  * Noel Dempsey TD is Minister for the Environment and Local Government 
