housing
{ Esther Hayden 
    April 29 2016 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/news/gorey-is-worst-affected-by-housing-crisis-34658548.html }
The thorny issue of housing stock in Gorey was broached again last week with the councillors believing that the Gorey area is the worst hit. Cllr Malcolm Byrne said he felt that 'the executive doesn't seem to appreciate the crisis that is in the district. It's a major crisis. There is no supply available and there doesn't seem to be a strategy in place.' Housing official Liz Hore however hit back at claims that Gorey is the worst affected district saying that 36 per cent of the demand for social housing is in Wexford town compared to 35 per cent in Gorey. However she said that these two areas are the main area of priority for the council. 'The stock is lower in Gorey', she acknowledged but said the council is constantly looking at every housing supply open to it.  'I do accept that Gorey is challenging and we are doing our very best to deliver housing within the resources we can get within the social housing strategy.'  Cllr Robbie Ireton was keen to defend the housing staff. 'The housing staff are doing extraordinary work in extraordinary circumstances. The level of stress the local housing officers are under is unreal. We should be looking at counselling services for the staff because these are extraordinary time. ' He went on to lash out at Deputy Mick Wallace's housing figures saying that 'that's not the way the council is going' before saying the housing problem 'wasn't of  our making or the people we are trying to facilitate'. Cllr Byrne, ever the peacemaker, said nobody thought the housing staff weren't doing the best they could. Cllr Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin said that 'the vast majority of people that come to me about housing problems don't blame the officials. They know they are under extreme pressure but the council has less than 10 per cent of the resources it needs to tackle the situation. 'Obviously Gorey is a priority for us', he said.  Cllr Joe Sullivan, a letting agent, said that the private rental sector is also in crisis. 'I have families at the moment that I don't have a house to rent to them in Gorey. Other agencies are in the same boat. 'In the last two weeks I've gone out of my way to try facilitate these families and get a roof over their heads. All the agencies have to work together. It's not uncommon for women and children to be in my office crying in front of me but I can't magic a house for them.' He was also critical of the RAS payments saying that a number of landlords were leaving the scheme because the rates were less than market value and the conditions of return were higher. 'We've two less landlords operating in the RAS scheme now that we did in 2014', he said.  Ms Hore said that the Housing Assistance Payment (HAP) is coming to Wexford and will help the housing situation. 'It will also give the true figure of homelessness', she said. 'Gorey is very challenging and the highest rents in the county are being looked for here.' She also acknowledged that she had lost landlords out of the RAS scheme simply because she couldn't give them a higher rate as the rate is set nationally.  Cllr John Hegarty said housing policy needs to be examined.  'As a district we need to change the way we view housing policy. Month after month Gorey is less than half the next lowest of the four districts. When it comes to reviewing strategy things need to be flipped on its head.' Cllr Byrne said in the next six years 1,300 new housing units were required. 'We have a responsibility to ensure that these are provided. The housing market here is completely different here than the rest of the county.' Cllr Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin added that the population could expand more than predicted which would also create problems.  Cllr Ireton wondered about the allocation of housing in Riverchapel and Ms Hore said that the first half of the houses had been allocated to people with disabilities.  He also pointed out that the council is now competing against other homeowners to buy any available stock out there which he said was not in a good position to be in. Cllr Ireton then turned his attention to Cllr Sullivan saying that he felt that the Cllr Sullivan should absent himself from housing discussions. 'I know Joe means well and he is making a fair point but I personally thing he should get up and walk out when housing is being discussed.' Cllr Sullivan was having none of this talk however and said he was not there to represent landlords adding that he had as much of an interest and possibly more than most councillors in housing. He stressed that the problem was not confined to the local authority saying that housing stock in the private sector was very limited too with very few properties being offered for rent.  Gorey Guardian 
