housing
{  
    August 17 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/localnotes/planning-in-fingal-27785355.html }
PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 04/08/00 J. Leonard, Millbank, Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, to demolish farm sheds and build new dwellings at Mill Bank, Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Ms. Nicola Flynn, Casa Crina, Whitestown Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey house with garage at Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Bernard Healy, Milverton, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow, garage and biocycle unit at Milverton, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Pierce and Jennifer Dowling, Baskin Lane, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin, for proposed extension, proposed double garage with pitched roof and biocycle to rear of existing cottage at Baskin Lane, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. Peninsula Building Services Ltd., 1 Island View House, Harbour Road, Howth, Co.Dublin, for 6 no. apartments, new vehicular entrance and 6 car parking spaces. The development will involve the partial demolition, the addition of a second floor, an extension to the side and rear and change of use at 'Emo House' 69 Main Street, Howth, Co. Dublin. Michael Nugent Tennis Academy Ltd., Posie Row, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin, for revision to previously approved planning application reg. ref. no. F96A/0042 for proposed indoor tennis courts and club house to include revision to club house facilities, at ground floor level, and proposed new managers apartment at first floor level at Posie Row, Kinsealy, Co.Dublin. Mr.&Mrs. Pat Hogan/Mr.&Mrs.Leslie Farmer, 4 The Strand, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for two dormer houses and off-street parking at rear of no. 4 The Strand, Malahide, Co. Dublin. K. Kane, 40 St. Annes Square, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, to construct 2-storey house at side at 40 St. Anne's Square, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Alyson Kiernan, 2 Hilltown Court, Swords, Co. Dublin, for revised house type at side of 2 Hilltown Court at 2 Hilltown Court, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Miriam Glynn, 26 Cherrycourt, Mount Tallant Avenue, Dublin 6W, for dwelling house and biocycle system at Newbarn, Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin. Terence O'Connor, Blackwood House, Blackwood Lane, Malahide, Co.Dublin, to construct dormer bungalow, detached garage and Biocycle system at Courtlough, Balbriggan, Co.Dublin. Brian Burke, 2 Abbeyvale Way, Swords, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission for 3 bedroomed, 2 storey detached dwelling, with new vehicular entrance, to the side of existing house at 2 Abbeyvale Way, Swords, Co. Dublin. D. J. Sugrue, 84 Martello Court, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, to construct a two storey house at the side, including a single storey conservatory to the rear of both houses at 136 Huntstown Wood, Mulhuddart, Dublin 15. Mr. & Mrs. A. McKeever, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for demolition of existing sheds and construction of new dormer bungalow at rear of existing residence with new vehicular access at Jordanstown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. J. & B. Hourihan, "Beech Hill", 1 Nashville Park, Howth, Co. Dublin, for single storey dwelling on site adjacent to 1 Nashville Park and Cowbooters Lane, previous reg. ref. F95A/0395 adjacent to 1 Nashville Park and Cowbooters Lane, Howth, Co. Dublin. More Group (Ire.) Ltd., Beech House, Beech Hill Road, Dublin 4, for provision of additional office space involving internal modification and changes to facade of existing unit at Unit 9 Northwest Business Park, Cloghran Road, Co. Dublin. M. McGrane, Balscadden, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for self contained granny flat unit to rear of existing dwelling site together with all associated site works at Balscadden, Balbriggan, Co.Dublin. Ernie Donnelly, Rathartan, Lusk, Co. Dublin, to alter roof detail of previously granted permission at 60 Lower Main Street, Rush, Co. Dublin. Dorothy McEvoy, The Glebe, Balrothery, Co. Dublin, for outline permission for residential development comprising 9 two storey 4 and 5 bedroom houses at The Glebe, Balrothery, Co. Dublin. Swords Laboratories, Swords, Co. Dublin, for temporary (up to 5 years) administration offices - floor area - 432 sq.m. at Watery Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin. The Trustees of Sutton Golf Club, Cush Point, Sutton, Dublin 13, for development consisting of a single storey golf course (maintenance building (c. 108 sq.m. total), including ancillary workshop, toilet and kitchen facilities and internal storage for diesel; yard; provision of biocycle treatment facility and percolation area; site development and landscaping works; vehicular access to serve the golf course maintenance building via existing laneway off Howth Road located opposite Church Road junction; all on a site of approx. 0.17 ha. On lands at Sutton Golf Course, ocated south of DART railway line and north of Howth Road Sutton, Dublin 13 at lands located south of Dart Railway Line and North of Howth Road, Sutton, Dublin 13 accessed via landway off Howth Road opposite Church Road Junction. Carroll Estates ltd., 5 Merrion Square, Dublin 2, for revisions to previously approved house type at sites 1-19 (odd nos.) at 1-19 (odd nos.) Gainsborough Close, Swords Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. M. Hand, Ivy House, The Green, Lusk, Co. Dublinm for dwelling with biocycle unit at Causestown, Lusk, Co.Dublin. Irish Asphalt Limited, Rosemount Business Park, Ballycoolin Road, Dublin 11, for development of a quarry (the quarry void will extend over an area of 8.59 hectares (21.2 acres) and associated primary crushing facilities, offices, weighbridge, wheelwash, portable toilets, water treatment facility and all associated landscaping and development works. Permission is also being sought for the restoration of the quarry on its completion to existing ground levels. The proposed development is contained on an overall site area of 13.86 hectares (34.3 acres). The site is located in the townland of Bay, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. This application for planning permission is accompanied by an Environmental Impact Statement at Baylane Bay, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Kenny, 10 Carrickbrack Heath, Sutton, Dublin 13, for demolition of existing garage and construction of new side extension with pitched roof with roof light over, single storey extension to rear and alterations to front elevation at 10 Carrickbrack Heath, Sutton, Dublin 13. D. & M. Campbell, 4 Craoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for side and rear two storey extension to two storey dwelling house at 4 Craoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. T. O'Rourke, Kilhedge Lane, Lusk, Co. Dublin, to demolish out houses to rear of cottage and build extension to rear at Kilhedge Lane, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Jonathan and Una Cooke, 5 East Pier, Howth, Co.Dublin, for proposed alterations to existing first floor and new second floor extension at 5 East Pier, Howth, Co. Dublin. Lauri and Veronica Duffy, 18 Casana View, Howth, Co. Dublin, to retain porch area 7 sq.m. and alteration of roof profile from high lean-to type roof to lower apex style over porch and study (area 21 sq.m.) at 18 Casana View, Howth, Co. Dublin. Wayne Smith, 26 Lawless Terrace, Balbriggan, Co.Dublin, to retain works at rear 26 Lawless Terrace, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. V. & Y. McGrath, 16 Swords Manor Drive, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to side at 16 Swords Manor Drive, Swords, Co. Dublin. Albert O'Brien, 4 College Street, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for retention of kitchen extension, shed and boiler house to rear with porch to front at 4 College Street, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. C. Devine, 44 The Park, Orlynn Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for forticrete block finish to approved dwelling at Great Common, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Peter McQuade, 4 River Valley Heights, River Valley Heights, Swords, Co. Dublin, for for two storey extension, kitchen, utility room, bedroom and bathrooms at rear at 4 River Valley Heights, Swords, Co. Dublin. Eileen Staunton, 20 Offington Drive, Sutton, Dublin 13, for for retention of extension at rear first floor roof of existing dormer bungalow, to provide additional bedroom and 2 ensuite bathrooms at 20 Offington Drive, Sutton, Co. Dublin. James & Maressa Raleigh, 'Iniscara', Carrickbrack Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, for development comprising the alteration, refurbishment and extension of existing house now to comprise a 5 bedroom pitched roof two storey dwelling, site development works at 'Iniscara', Carrickbrack Road, Sutton, Dublin 13. Mr. & Mrs. P. Dehaene, Moortown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension to existing dwelling with single storey attached garage to side atMoortown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Chad Mouldings Limited, Jordanstown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for retention of building used for light industrial purposes; retention of extensions to cottage; permission for propriety waste water treatment plant and percolation/irrigation area in lieu of existing septic tank and associated site works at Jordanstown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. High Crown Ltd., Nevinstown, Swords, Co. Dublin, for one/two storey Montessori/Creche, 2 no. three storey apartments containing 12 two bed and 6 one bed apartments, three/four storey building with basement carparks containing two shop units, medical centre, four business start-up units and public house at ground/basement level, with office unit at first to third floors and demolition of existing dwelling at Ballymun townland, Ballymun Road, Dublin 11. AMENDMENT TO WEEKLY LIST NO. 30 Paul Walshe, 36 Grange Road, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin, to erect a house at the site at 36 Grange Road, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin.  LIST OF DECISIONS MADE FROM 31/07/2000 TO 04/08/2000 Decisions to GRANT FURTHER EXTENSION OF DURATION OF PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Sandra O'Neill, c/o 6 Church Road, Dublin 13. to rebuild single storey cottage as an extended 2 storey dormer end of terrace at No. 8 Church Road, Sutton, Dublin 13.  Decisions to GRANT PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Anthony Pyne, 14 Bremore Cottages, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for extension to side of dwelling and provision of utility room to rear, provision of bay windows to front, existing brickwork facing changed to dashed finish. This revised application supercedes current application ref. no. F00A/0137 at 14 Bremore Cottages, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Ravenshall Development Ltd.. 44 St. Stephen's Green, Dublin 2, for residential development with new entrance and access from Estuary Road, consisting of 8 no. three bed 7 no. four bed and 6 no. two bed two storey townhouses in five blocks, with sewage treatment plant at site adjoining 'Larchwood' Estuary Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. P. Counihan, Newlawn, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for 3 no. dormer houses at Grange, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin. Rev. Fr. P. Freeney, The Presbytery, Balbriggan, Co.Dublin, for prefabricated temporary 2 classroom building at Balscadden National School, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Ridgeline Properties, Newtownhill House, Captains Hill, Leixlip, Co. Kildare, to retain the attic conversions and associated roof lights in the four terraced houses at Portrane National School, Portrane Road, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Aer Lingus Facilities Eng. Serv. Annex, Dublin Airport, Dublin, for retention of security office adjacent to cargo terminal building at Corballis Road South, Dublin Airport. Geoff Cawley, Swallow House, Ceanchor Road, Baily, Howth, Co. Dublin, for change of use of an existing two storey outbuilding from storage to part residential use as an extension to the previously approved refurbishment of dwelling (An Bord Pleanala reference PL 06F. 116525) to include extension, elevational changes at ground and first floor levels and all associated landscaping and site development works at Swallow House, Ceanchor Road, Baily, Howth, Co. Dublin. C. Smyth, Wyanstown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for relocation of dormer bungalow within reduced site, relocation of site entrance and new entrance to field including access strip. Reduced height of dormer bungalow previou at Wyanstown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Hamilton, 41 Church Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for provision of a new pedestrian gate and separate vehicular gates for off streeet car parking at 41 Church Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Rev. Fr. P. Freeney, The Presbytery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for prefabricated temporary 3 classroom building at St. Molagas National School, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Bracken Hill School Trust, c/o Ms. E. O'Reilly, Glenbyle, Claremont Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for temporary 3 classroom school and ancillary facilities at Beann Eadair GAC, Balkill Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Superquinn Support Office, Sutton Cross, Dublin 13, for new mezzanine floor within previously approved Anchor 'A' retail unit (ref. F99A/0829), for use as staff accommodation/storage, within new town centre facility at Milton House (Townlands of Miltonfields and Barrysparks), Malahide Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. G. Pearson, 12 Fade Street, Dublin 2, for 3 x ground floor residential art studios at Sunlight Studios, Railway Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Wiggins Teape (Irl.) Ltd., Century Business Park, Block 5, Unit 11, St. Margarets Road, Finglas, Dublin 11, for new company signs on front (north) and side (west) of existing premises approx. 8.5 m from ground level and 1m in height at Century Business Park, Block 5, Unit 11, St. Margarets Road, Finglas, Dublin 11. Mr. J. Watson, Vanestown House, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for erection of a dormer dwelling and garage with waste water treatment system at Kilcrea, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Mr. E. & Mrs. S. Cosgrove, Grove Lodge, Bay Lane, Kilshane, Dublin 11, to form a new entrance to facilitate access to the rear of the property for the owners truck at Grove Lodge, Bay Lane, Kilshane, Dublin 11. D. & J. Killeen, Glebe House, Old Portmarnock Road, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin, for single storey porch extension to the front, relocation of vehicular entrance, and provision of new pedestrian gateway at Glebe House, Old Portmarnock Road, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. Flynn & O'Flaherty (Dublin) Limited, 21 Pembroke Road, Dublin 4, for alterations to existing planning register reference F98A/1100 for town centre facilities at Milton House (townlands of Miltonfields and Barrysparks), Swords, with access off the Malahide Road and boundaries also to the N1 dual carriageway, Carlton Court, The Paddocks, 'Briargate' and the rear of 73 to 102 Dublin Road and Miltonfields, rear of Superquinn; and including two-storey commercial development of total gross floor area (39,385 sq.m.) incorporating two supermarkets, two anchor stores, 49 shop units, one restaurant, two-storey mall and ancillary areas at ground, first and second floor levels. The application is for alterations to the existing permitted development under Reg. Ref. F98A/1100, F99A/0699, F99A/0829 and F99A/1388 on an extended site to include also Mount Gamble on the Malahide Road; specifically for alterations to approved plans for ancillary buildings along western boundary to omit approved transformer room and switchrooms and substitute twin generator room to altered plan layout at Milton House (Townlands of Miltonfields and Barrysparks), Swords, Co. Dublin. Board of Management, St.Oliver Plunketts School, Grove Rd., Malahide, Co. Dublin, for erection of a portacabin containing 1 no. classroom and w.c. to the south of the existing portacabins at St. Oliver Plunketts National School, Grove Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Adam & Siobhan Conlon, c/o Financial Network Services, Office 2303, A1 Moosa Tower, 2 P.O. Box 32989, Dubai, for revision to previous approved planning permission for garage to convert same to bedroom with en suite, extension to existing house to include new bedroom with en suite, new conservatory incorporating proposed new position for new underground sewage pump at Beacon House, Howth Summit, Howth, Co. Dublin. Mr. C. Dowler, 5 Hilltown Grove, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin, for new 2 storey 3 bedroom detached house to side of and new vehicular entrance to front of no. 13 at 13 Hilltown Lawn, Rivervalley, Swords, Co.Dublin. Eamon & Helen Keenan, Borranstown, Ashbourne, Co. Dublin, to erect garage at Borranstown, Ashbourne, Co. Dublin. Maurice & Claire Whyms, 15 Castlefield Manor, Malahide, Co. Dublin, to provide a 2 storey extension to the side and a single storey extension to the rear at 15 Castlefield Manor, Malahide, Co. Dublin. E. & M. McCarney, 6 The Court, Skerries Rock, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for single storey playroom extension to side at 6 The Court, Skerries Rock, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Joan & Patricia Smyth, 56 Shenick Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, to build a single extension to the side and continue new pitched roof over existing flat roof of garage at 56 Shenick Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin. David Caulfield, 70 Parkvale, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to rear at 49 St. Peter's Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Foley, 59 Grace O'Malley Road, Howth, Co. Dublink, for single storey extension with pitched roof and rooflights to rear at 59 Grace O'Malley Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. T. Hanna and L. Murphy, 8 Glen Ellan Park, Swords, Co. Dublin, for conversion of existing garage to family room at 8 Glen Ellan Park, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. M. Wilson, The Forge, Manowar, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to house including conversion of sheds to living space at The Forge, Manowar, Skerries, Co. Dublin. A. & P. Murphy, 110 Broadmeadow, Swords, Co. Dublin, for conversion of car port and single storey extension to front at 110 Broadmeadow, Swords, Co. Dublin. Vincent and Margaret Monaghan, Doolagh, Stamullen, Co. Meath, to build an extension to the rear of an existing house at Doolagh, Stamullen, Co. Dublin at Rath, Stamullen, Co. Dublin. Mr. P. Smyth, 6 Offington Drive, Dublin 13, for attic conversion with dormer windows and bedrooms to first floor rere at 6 Offington at 6 Offington Drive, Dublin 13. Vanessa Harford, Nevinstown Lane, Cloghran, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to side and construction of new roof to rear with alterations to existing house at Nevinstown Lane, Cloghran, Swords, Co. Dublin. Dermot Jacob, 17 Highfields, Swords, Co. Dublin, to construct single storey extension to rear of existing dwelling at 17 Highfields, Swords, Co. Dublin. Kevin & Daphne Hoctor, 1 The Lawn, Melrose Park, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey extension to side of existing dwelling, conservatory at rear and new front porch at 1 The Lawn, Melrose Park, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. Mr. Phillip Oxley, 39, St. Nessans Terrace, Howth, Dublin 13, for two storey extension at rear and velux rooflights in cottage roof at 39, St. Nessans Terrace, Howth, Dublin 13. Island Associates, 14 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, for for proposed change of use of part of light industrial/office use to call centre/direct marketing facility/dataprocessing/information technology/software development/science and technology/research and development/office units, incorporating a new mezzanine level, toilets, roof lights, new entrance foyer, alterations to facade and associated site works to unit 3 at Unit 3 Swords Business Campus, Balheary Road, Swords, Co. Dublin.  Requests for CLARIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications: Mr. Paul Mason, Borranstown, Ashbourne, Co. Meath, for bungalow, entrance, septic tank, Puraflo treatment system and all ancillary works at Borranstown, Ashbourne. Requests for ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications: A. C. Motors Ltd., Sweeney & Forte, 56 Howth Road, Dublin 3, to construct a two storey office building comprising a total gross floor area of 388 sq.m., to provide seven car park spaces at Grange Road, Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13. J. McColgan, Danes Hollow, Carrickbrack Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for biocycle treatment plant and surface water scheme (reg. ref. F99B/0155) at Dane's Hollow, Carrickbrack Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. P. Farrell, 50 Hayestown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for construction of a 5-bedroomed dormer bungalow at Coast Road, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin. P. Sherry, Riversdale, Dargle Road, Bray, Co. Wicklow, for facade alterations, new roof lighting and internal alterations to existing premises at Lilmar House, Oak Avenue, Santry, Dublin 9. Howth Celtic AFC, Carrickbrack Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, for construction of new changing rooms and storage facilities and biocycle unit on site at Carrickbrack Road at Carrickbrack Road, Sutton, Dublin 13. Carroll Estates Ltd., 25 Merrion Square, Dublin 2, for revised layout and house types, total no. being 20 comprising 2 no. detached four bed, 8 no. semi-detached four bed, and 10 no. semi detached three bed. This land was previously approved for 18 no. houses under Reg. Ref. F97A/117at Glen Ellen Gardens and Glen Ellen Walk, Swords, Co. Dublin. Tosara Products Ltd., Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13, for extension to their existing factory consisting of a single storey canteen to the front, 2 storey office/production to the side and single storey factory extension to the rear (to match existing building) together with additional car parking and relocation of existing sprinkler tank and pump house at Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13. G. Hartford, 97 Orlynn Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for farm and dwelling with biocycle unit, relocate power line at Wimbletown, Ballyboghill, Co. Dublin. Mr. L. Fynes, 'Breffni House', Skerries Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for approval to erect a dormer bungalow, grading shed and biocycle waste treatment system. Outline permission F99A/1008 at Balcunnin, Skerries, Co. Dublin. N. & J. Walsh, Murragh House, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for (a) Change of use of part of ground floor of existing house and outbuilding. (b) Reconstruction of existing outbuilding, and (c) Single-storey extension to existing house and outbuildings, all to comprise 53-bed nursing home/ Residential Retirement Complex (total area 1,746sq.m.). Part of the existing house is to remain as the proprietor's residence. The development is to include an effluent treatment plant and percolation area and a new relocated vehicular entrance at Murragh House, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. D. O'Driscoll, Puckoon, Newtown, Garristown, Co. Dublin, to erect a single storey dwellinghouse and install septic tank and percolation area at Ashpark, Garristown, Co. Dublin. S. Mulhall, 27 Kelly Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for garage/utility room to the rear at 27 Kelly Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin. M. Wright, 3 Hill Drive, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for construction of rear extension and internal alterations to no. 3 Hill Drive at 3 Hill Drive, Malahide, Co. Dublin. T. O'Connor, no. 4 Hill Drive, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for construction of rear extension and internal alterations at no. 4 Hill Drive, Malahide, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to REFUSE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Messrs. Paul Grimes and Kevin Brannigan, Grimes Estate Agents, Main St., Ashbourne, Co. Meath, to demolish an existing derelict stone building and to erect 8 dwellings together with all associated site works, drainage and requisite parking for the proposed development at land to rear of nos. 30, 31 and 32 Balbriggan Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin. L. Jones, 10 The Close, Orlynn Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for detached two storey dormer bungalow to the rear with access from Brookside Gardens at Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. K. Deering, Rustic Lodge, Carrick Hill, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for minor modifications to approved plans (F99A/1045) for new rear entrance from upper level, conversion and extension of garage to family accommodation, the creation of a gallery link, minor works and extension of driveway and car park area to rear at 21 Carrickbrack Road, Sutton South, Dublin 13. Caroline Nugent, Killalane, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to construct dormer bungalow with secondary treatment plant at Killalane, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Mr. S. Butterly, Balheary, Swords, Co. Dublin, to erect a two storey residence, garage, biocycle waste water treatment unit and new entrance at Balheary, Swords, Co. Dublin. Falcon Homes, Branganstown, Kilcock, Co. Kildare, for retention of revisions to existing permission (for 352 number dwelling units ref. no. F97A/0842) to comprise changes to layout at two sites numbered 39 and 40 (house numbers 18 and 20 Kelly's Bay Shore) at 39 and 40 (house numbers 18 and 20 Kelly's Bay Shore), Balbriggan Road, adjacent to Northcliffe Heights, Skerries. S. & R. Grimes20 Glen Ellan Court, Swords, Co. Dublin, for garage with separate entrance to the rear at 20 Glen Ellan Court, Swords, Co. Dublin. Garvan Moore, Baily Cottage, 79 Carrickbrack Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for alterations and extensions at Baily Cottage, 79 Carrickbrack Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Mr & Mrs. J. Pattonm Harristown Lane, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, to retain and complete dwelling partially constructed under reg. ref. F93A/0066 using independent drainage treatment system and entrance. Permission is also sought for waste water treatment system to service existing house at Harristown Lane, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. Requests for Site Notice in accordance with Article 16 of the Local Government (Planning and Development) Regulations 1994 were made in respect of the following applications: Aer Riants cpt, Head Office, Dublin Airport, Co. Dublin, for continuance of use of existing ground level car park, adjacent to the M1 motorway and with access off the Swords Road (R132), without complying with condition no. 2 of planning permission register reference F97A/0281; all on a site of approx. 5.5 hectares at site adjacent to M1 motorway with access off Swords Road, at Stockhole Townland, Co. Dublin. Idem Developments Ltd., 46-48 Laurence Street, Drogheda, Co. Louth, to erect two 4 bed detached houses to the rear of Fingal's Cave Pub, with access from Church Street at rear of Fingals Cave Pub, 43 Church Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin. P. Reid, St. Judes, Feltrim, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for retention of single storey dwelling at St. Jude's, Feltrim, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. Willie Strafford, 'Cluainin', Swords Road, Santry, Dublin 9, for change of use from dwelling to provide for student accommodation in accordance with guidelines on residential development for third level students at Parkland Investments Ltd., c/o Thomas Montgomery & Sons, 5 Lower Merrion Street, Dublin 2, for demolition of Broomfield House and associated out-buildings and the erection of 43 2 storey houses, 56 3 storey 'duplex' units in 4 blocks and 72 5-storey apartments in 2 blocks around landscaped deck over basement parking with associated site works, vehicular access from the R124 Malahide to Portmarnock Road at Broomfield House, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Brendan Reynolds, no. 1 St. Columbas Heights, Swords, Co. Dublin, for bay window to front at 1 St. Columbas Heights, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. D. Kavanagh, Carnhill, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to front of house and new patio door to side at Carnhill, Skerries, Co. Dublin Requests for TIME EXTENSIONS in accordance with Section 26(4a) of the Local Government (Planning & Development) Act, 1963 as amended by Section 39(f) of the Local Government (Planning and Development) Act, 1976 were submitted and accepted in respect of the following applications: Patrick McGonagle, North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing offices and to construct new offices and associated services at North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin.  APPEALS NOTIFIED BY AN BORD PLEANALA DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: Borg Developments, Howth Lodge Hotel, Howth Road, Co. Dublin, for demolition of existing hotel, dwelling and development of 69 no. apartments consisting of 1 no. one bedroom unit, 45 no. two bedroom units and 23 no. three bedroom units, all in a building of two and four storeys, comprising of 6 no. self contained blocks; provision of 99 car parking spaces in underground car park and 26 spaces at ground level (total of 125 spaces); bin storage area; site development and landscape works, including boundary treatment; vehicular access via existing/upgraded access to Howth Road, all on a site of approx. 1.2ha. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: Louis and Ann Bell, 'The Haven', Baily Green, The Summit, Howth, Co. Dublin to retain increases ridge height of annex, four dormer structures, two conservatories (total 23 sq.m.) outlying garage and boiler house at Bailey Green.  DECISIONS OF AN BORD PLEANALA APPEAL DECISION: Appeal Withdrawn COUNCIL’S DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: 7 Talbot Park, Malahide, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT:First floor extension to side. APPLICANT: Mr. John Whyte, APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission COUNCIL’S DECISION: GRANT PERMISSION LOCATION: Millbank, Lucan PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: 3,093 sq.m. of industrial buildings including two storey ancillary offices in six units, for 1,368 sq.m. of offices in two blocks, one two storey and the other three storey and for associated site works APPLICANT: Shannon Homes (Dublin) Ltd. APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCIL’S DECISION: REFUSE OUTLINE PERMISSION LOCATION: Barnageeragh, Skerries, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Farm and dwelling with biological sewage unit. APPLICANT: P. Ellis 
