housing
{  
    October 15 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/in-god-and-house-prices-we-trust-25926502.html }
House prices play a pivotal role in people's lives and the economy. After a period of rapid price inflation, the country can ill afford a property crash LET me explain, in particular to the Government and sundry commentators, how houses are bought and sold. The builder places an ad in reputable journals, such as this one, as early as possible in its development, saying at what price he is offering his new 
des
res's. If he is swamped by would-be buyers, he will push the prices up as the development is completed. Builders of the next development, having noticed this, will start their prices at the new, higher level. Sometimes (it has happened, but not for ten years) there are not enough buyers and the builder has to cut prices. He cannot leave houses unsold. All he can do is minimise his losses. Builders, in the past, were quick and shrewd availers of the bankruptcy laws. The one factor which does not come into any of this is the actual cost of providing the house, whether construction or the price of development land. But then, we fortunate home-owners know that very well. My house cost me ?20,000 many years ago. Would this reduce the price at which I put it on the market if I decided to sell? Would it you-know-what! So capping the price of development land, which is the latest ministerial wheeze, will not affect the price of a house at the other end, all other things being equal. It would just make builders even richer. Even if it did, the result would be longer queues, starting earlier, to buy houses at the new knock-down prices. Unless the minister were also to decide who should get the houses, which is the kind of thing ministers like to do. But then, previous government interventions in the housing market strongly suggest that ministers really do not understand how it works. Either that, or they are not trying to cut house price inflation at all; merely pretending that they are. There is some evidence for the latter belief. In 2001, the Government sharply increased stamp duty for investors, defined as non-owner-occupiers. Note that this made no difference to the cost of supplying houses. But it did reduce the purchasing power of buyers. The effect was dramatic. House price inflation fell from 20pc to 3pc. Did ministers cheer and congratulate themselves on the success of their policy? They did not. They reversed the measures in the following Budget. Prices began immediately to rise and have since surprised most commentators by continuing to do so at a gallop. House price inflation this year is put at almost 14pc, and 17pc in the Dublin area. The cruel truth for first-time buyers is that there are an awful lot more people, from estate agents to your columnist, who have much more interest in prices going up than they have in seeing them come down. Indeed, the value of the country's housing stock is now put at a staggering ?250bn. Hence the huge interest in what is going to happen to house prices. No conceivable house price slump can wipe out more than a fraction of that enormous gain in wealth, which will have economic implications for years to come. But will there even be such a slump? As with any market, no-one can tell for sure. There are a couple of certainties, but after that only a range of possibilities. The first certainty - and one worth bearing in mind - is that house prices cannot keep going up at their present rate. At some point they will stop rising and some unlucky buyers will find they are the 'last fools' to enter a rising market. But one cannot be sure when this will be, nor what will happen afterwards. Will prices stabilise, fall, or fall in real terms (allowing for the effects of inflation)? This is an important distinction and one which is often overlooked, even misunderstood. It is very rare for actual house prices to fall. It did happen in Britain and Ireland during their separate housing slumps of the 1980s, but only for a matter of months. Yet it is probably what most people think about when they read warnings of "collapses" in the housing market. In the past, inflation absorbed the price reductions in downturns, so that only 'real' prices fell. But fall they did. In Ireland, real prices dropped by around 50pc from 1980 to the start of the boom in 1995. It has been calculated that someone who bought in 1980 would not have seen the real value of their house restored until 1996. As with the stock market, timing is everything. One worry is that inflation is now too low to absorb and hide a real fall. In Germany, real prices have fallen 13pc since 1995 - not an unusual decline in a slump. But low inflation translated that into a 5pc fall in actual (nominal) prices. The current outlook for Irish inflation is for it to settle in the 2-3pc range. Any significant drop in real prices would almost certainly mean a fall in nominal ones. Whether it actually happens depends on whether there has been a 'regime change' in the housing market. In the past, there was a long-term trend for house prices to average about 3.8 times average earnings. House prices are currently more than five times average earnings. Were they to revert to the 25-year average, there would indeed be a sharp correction. This is essentially the basis for forecasts of such a correction, like the one in the 
Economist magazine. But there is a good reason for thinking the old ratio is out of date - the new range of interest rates implied by membership of the euro. This is why most Irish economic analysts - and laterly their British counterparts - have concentrated on 'affordability'; the cost of servicing a mortgage as a percentage of disposable income. As the chart shows, there appears to be a long-run trend here too, with the property cycle moving around a figure where mortgage costs are just over a quarter of disposable income. The bad news is that we are ahead of that figure too - with the mortgage on the average house now taking up about a third of disposable income. This is why the continued strong rise in prices is a cause for concern. It is keeping that ratio high, all the more so as earnings growth slows in the private sector. Mortgage rates are the other side of this equation. There is no sign of them rising at present - indeed, another cut early next year cannot be ruled out entirely. But rise they will at some point, although the rises should be slow and modest. Bank of Ireland Group Treasury forecasts an average rate of 4.25pc over the next three years. But, combined with any return to that 28pc affordability ratio, such rates would, at best, require a period of house price stagnation. Most people would settle for stagnation as an optimistic outlook. The reason for thinking it may happen, and nominal prices will not fall, is the strong demand pressure in the Irish market. This has been well-rehearsed: about 30,000 units a year required for new households (whether single or couples), plus another 5,000 a year for second or replacement homes. On the other side, Irish builders have proved very responsive at matching supply to demand. If they continue to do so, buyers will have to continue to offer good prices to get the house they want. All too typically, the Government has begun to talk about ways to increase the supply of development land just when the danger, from a price point of view, is starting to look like over-supply. The second certainty is that the buyers will decide the outcome. There was a warning in the events of 2001. Not only did investors leave the market, having been taxed out of it, but there were signs that first-time buyers began to hold back in the hope of cheaper prices. That is how markets turn, and why they tend to overshoot both upwards and downwards. One cannot say whether this is a good time or not to buy a house, but only a fool of a government would meddle in a market so delicately poised. 
