housing
{ Martina Devlin 
    May 15 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/house-of-the-rising-sum-26187033.html }
Dream over for couple in price hike court battle    A Dublin couple became a national talking point this week over their court battle with a builder, who backed off from a deal to sell them a house for £129,000. Later they were quoted a £36,000 price rise in just four months. Their story is a cautionary tale of disappointed hopes in an inflated property market Wayne and Gemma Lakes had been househunting for six months when they saw the perfect home. It had a scenic setting in the foothills of the Dublin mountains, there was a garden big enough for their toddler daughter Jessica to romp in and the four bedrooms meant they could invite her grandparents to live with them. It was ideal apart from the fact it wasn't built yet. Even that wasn't a problem because the builder's estimated finishing date of five months allowed them breathing space to sort out financing and save a nest egg for decorating and new furniture. The couple paid a deposit of £2,000 in October, and as far as they were concerned, the house they'd fallen in love with from the plans would soon belong to them. But they had reckoned without spiralling property prices and building delays. By February, the house they believed they were buying for £129,00 had leapt by a quarter again to £165,000 and there still wasn't a brick laid. The extra £36,000 priced them out of the market. And what of their £2,000 booking deposit? As a hold on the detached house, it was worthless. Until contracts were exchanged, they had no legal right to the property in Ellensborough, Tallaght, Co. Dublin. While the Lakes had signed their part of the contract and returned it to the builder, Durkan New Homes, managing director Neil Durkan decided against signing and aborted the sale. He felt they were delaying unnecessarily a charge they deny because it took three months for contracts to reach him and they were signed subject to loan approval. The Lakes took the builder to the High Court earlier this week and lost. While Mr Justice McCracken sympathised with their plight, he ruled that the law was against them: a booking deposit is not a contract as is stated on the receipt. The Lakes are not homeless as a result of their unfortunate experience, although they are looking at a hefty legal bill to top off their disappointment. They still have a three-bedroom semi-detached home in Kingswood Heights, Tallaght. But self-employed Wayne Lakes (30) and his electronics operative wife Gemma cannot now afford the sort of house they aspired to last October. ``There was a time when a handshake was enough to close a deal. Once we paid our deposit and it was cashed, we thought that was our house. We had the site map and we used to drive up and look at the plot and make plans. I used to joke that the car knew its own way up there,'' said Mr Lakes, who has a delivery business. ``When everyone heard we were paying £129,000 for a house in Tallaght last year they said we were mad. It seemed a dear price, but it was an ideal house to us. We thought it was worth it. And the way the property market is going, it would have been a good buy.'' It's undeniable there were hold-ups. The Lakes had a tiny mortgage and decided against selling their existing home, with around £75,000 worth of equity, opting to rent it out instead as an investment property. This delayed the issue of contracts. Contracts arrived in the Lakes' solicitor's office on December 18 but were not returned until the middle of January because of the firm's Christmas holidays. Their solicitor had inserted a clause, ``subject to loan approval within 21 days'', to give them time to get finance. When Neil Durkan did not receive a written copy of this loan approval in his office within the specified period, he cancelled the sale. The Lakes say they had written approval from Irish Nationwide within the time limit but confirmation did not make its way to Neil Durkan until three days after he returned their deposit on February 10. ``Loan approval came through on February 6, and he may not have been notified until February 13. But it is not unheard of for one solicitor to ring the other and say `The 21 days is up, have you got loan approval?' before cancelling the sale,'' said the Lakes' solicitor Godfrey Hogan, from Woods & Co. Mr Lakes was more blunt. ``Neil Durkan realised he could make another £36,000 on the property it all comes down to money,'' he claimed. As for Mr Durkan, he's annoyed that the Ranelagh-based family business started by his father 35 years ago is at the centre of such adverse publicity, and feels he is unfairly cast as a villain. ``It's very unfortunate that Durkan's name is being used here in this way. If I had a contract exchanged with the man I would have honoured that. It is not a question of squeezing money out of people,'' he insisted. ``I feel we were messed about for four months. He was asked to sign a contract and he signed it subject to loan approval which isn't worth the paper it's written on and then he didn't have the loan approval through on time. ``We're not unreasonable people to deal with. We don't mess people about. If someone put a deposit on a piece of furniture and didn't come back for four months you'd think they weren't particularly interested. ``We assumed he didn't want the property. We often get left with people who put deposits on houses and leave them lie for months on hold. We were not influenced by the fact that house prices had gone up.'' When the Lakes heard the sale was off, they rang their local senator, Brian Hayes, to intercede, and the politician arranged a meeting between Wayne Lakes and Neil Durkan at the end of February. Mr Lakes said: ``The builder said it would be bad business for him to sell to me for £129,000. He said his costs had gone up because of sterling rates. I asked him how much he'd sell it for and I was later given a price of £165,000. `I said the most I could afford was £135,000. That was the money we'd put away for furnishings, and even then I felt I shouldn't have to pay more, but my wife was so upset I offered it. But it wasn't accepted and £165,000 blew me out of the water. ``If Mr Durkan wasn't sure of his prices, he shouldn't have put those houses on the market. I'm not denying the house is probably worth £165,000 now, but as far as I'm concerned I bought it last October.'' He added: ``I feel I've been roasted by a prehistoric law that's totally in favour of landowners and builders. I did as much as I could. I put down a deposit which I thought was binding and I organised a mortgage. I had the money to give the guy and then he turns around and says `I want more money.' We're not talking about TV sets here; we're talking about homes. ``This is going to happen over and over again. There is nothing whatsoever to stop builders putting their prices up while a house is being built. I have a friend who had to pay an extra £5,000 before he could move into his new house last year, but a rise that involves an extra £300 a month on your mortgage is ridiculous. ``You can pay a deposit and even sign contracts, but the builder can delay signing them for months while the market shoots up. The law is on his side and people are so desperate for houses they are willing to put up with delays and price rises.'' Mr Durkan said he had some sympathy for the Lakes, but he insisted they had held a house for four months before their depost was finally returned. ``We have to move on,'' he added. He claimed they had led his estate agent, Douglas Newman Good, to believe they had their own house to dispose of. It was only in December that the Lakes confirmed they were not selling. What business is it of the builder how a purchaser intends to finance the deal? ``A house is a substantial investment for most people. You want to know that they have the money to buy it,'' he replied. He added: ``Contracts were issued and are usually signed within 14 days, but when they finally came back, their solicitor chose to insert a clause saying subject to loan approval within 21 days, which means the contract isn't worth the paper it's written on. ``That contract sat there for a couple of weeks, and finally I asked our solicitor and the estate agent had they got loan approval. They said no, and I said `We're not proceeding; return the deposit. If they were so keen on the house, why did they wait four months to get loan approval?'' He said sterling had affected material and labour had risen, but that was not the full reason for the hike. ``The increase is based on selling the house in June or July 1998 not October 1997, which is many months later. We've only just started building them now when we thought we would start in December. It wouldn't be good sense to sell a house in July for the same price you could have got in October. ``In today's market it's true that we're wanting more money, but we would have been prepared to go ahead with the sale as agreed if he was ready to exchange, and he wasn't. ``A deposit is an intent to purchase; it is not a contract. It clearly stipulates on all the deposit receipts that it is not binding unless contracts are exchanged. If he had paid his deposit and house prices had dropped, we wouldn't be able to enforce that deposit in a court of law. He would be able to walk away from the sale and get his money back, so it works both ways. It's not just in the builder's favour.'' He added: ``Durkan's are a reputable company if someone puts a deposit down and shows an interest in purchasing the property in a reasonable timescale, we don't have a problem. Four months is not a reasonable timescale. ``Our policy is not to leave contracts lying around while prices go up. It's in our interest not to delay because we have a secure deposit on a sale for a house we are building. It allows us to complete a house.'' It's a difficult situation one that has aroused considerable interest because of nationwide anxiety about an inflated property market. But making the deposit legally enforceable is not the answer, a spokeswoman for The Law Society's conveyancing committee explained. She said no-one would have had seen title to a property at the booking stage, so it would be unfair if a booking deposit made a deal legally enforceable: ``The purchaser would be buying a pig in a poke if it was binding. The vendor might not own the land or have planning permission to build there. None of this would have been checked by the solicitor on behalf of the client.'' Meanwhile, Fine Gael's Alan Shatter said it was unacceptable for builders of new housing estates to hike prices between the booking deposit and contract exchange stage. ``I believe the Government should address this issue urgently. Young people buying homes are vulnerable here,'' he warned. ``Clearly, when this house was originally put on the market, the developer had in-built in the price what he regarded as a reasonable profit. Developers are entitled to that, but what they are not entitled to do is exploit their position. ``The Oireachtas should now look at the enactment of legislation to ensure that where contracts are furnished to the purchaser by the developer, he should be bound to sell the house at the price on the date of the booking deposit. ``We used to have a problem in the past with auctioneers gazumping people. Now it's a problem of developers gazumping people. I believe this new legislation is necessary, not just as a politician but as a family lawyer.''  However, he added that the buyer should be obliged to return contracts within a reasonable period and the developer should not be expected to wait around indefinitely. 
