housing
{ By JAMES YOUNG 
    May 25 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/house-price-rises-spell-warning-on-inflation-rate-26118714.html }
AS THE central bank warns of inflation increases, house  price indicators suggest that property prices are rising even faster now than before. One... AS THE central bank warns of inflation increases, house price indicators suggest that property prices are rising even faster now than before. One guide indicated that prices had gone up by 7pc in the first four months of the year to date, putting us on course for a 20pc-25pc increase in house prices during the calendar year. People are asking when will it stop? While others are questioning what can be done? In terms of when the time of rapid house price increases will stop is a matter for the markets. Not just the housing markets, but most importantly, the mortgage market. There are clear indications that recent interest rate hikes from the European Central Bank have filtered into mortgage costs, making it more expensive to make house payments. While mortgage rates were falling, it was easy for people to pay more for houses. For every 0.5pc downward movement in interest rates, house prices could rise by about 4.5pc and people could keep the same mortgage repayments. That mathematical fact dictates the price that people will be able to afford. With interest rates going up by 0.75pc in the past six months with further increases expected, some dampening of the rapid price rises is likely to occur over the next 12 months. One of the other factors to take into account when asking when it will stop is the demand for houses. With the economy growing faster than ever according to some economists reports, demand is likely to remain high for new houses. With demand remaining high and perhaps increasing, the supply situation becomes the key issue. If supply and demand were in balance, then house prices would not increase. However, supply issues remain the major driving factor behind house prices and affordability. The serviced land supply issue remains unresolved and the current proposals in the planning bill do nothing to address this problem. In fact, the proposals calling for up to 20pc of the land to be acquired by the Government at agricultural use value will act to raise prices while doing nothing about the supply of zoned and serviced land. In regards to when house prices will stabilise to historical growth patterns (about 6pc-7pc per year, you can rest assured that it will not happen within the next 12 months). This is because interest rate increases take time to filter through the market and the supply issues are not being addressed adequately, or in time, to do anything radical to the house price growth rate. In terms of answering the question, `What can be done to stop the increase in house prices?' there is no shortage of ideas. The only real answer is to build new infrastructure to support new development and let the supply grow to meet demand and let interest rates do the rest in terms of keeping prices down. Any other ideas run the risk of doing more long-term harm to the market than good in the short-term. One idea suggested by ICTU during the week is for the State to purchase development land at agricultural value from home builders. Outside of being just plain daft, measures like this would act to only increase prices even further for those houses not being built by the local authority. Furthermore, proposals like these, if acted upon, will quickly bring us back to the economic behaviour of the past. For those of you who remember the 1980s and the 1970s, you will probably not want to go back to the economic climate of those times. Another of the ideas presented in the past few weeks is for an extension of the shared ownership programme to cover those in higher income groups. In short, this idea would allow people to borrow what they could afford, while the State would purchase the rest and rent it at a very low cost to the occupier. Over time, the mortgage would be paid off and then the purchaser could buy out the State's portion of the ownership. As long as the houses are purchased at market prices and purchased from private developers, there are no major short-term problems with a scheme of this type. In the longer run, the State could cancel this programme so that the market returns to entirely private transactions. The reason that house prices are becoming such a major issue is that inflation is beginning to take off and will likely be well above the 4pc that Minister McCreevy predicted earlier this week. Many people are blaming house prices for this rapid increase in inflation. This is not entirely fair. The increase in interest rates certainly had an impact, as mortgage repayments are a component part of the Consumer Price Index. But house prices have been going up rapidly for years without any adverse impact on the inflation rate. Analysts would be better placed to look at rising energy prices and interest rates rather than headline house prices. This brings up another point about house prices. Dan McLaughlin of ABN-AMRO received loads of grief from unions and Government ministers with the statement that houses are more affordable than ever in the Irish market. He was right. The current payment on a £100,000 mortgage would only service a mortgage of about £50,000 eight years ago because of the high interest rates back then. That means that about £700 per month got you a £60,000 house in 1992 while that same amount, £700, will buy a house of £120,000. With wages going up considerably since 1992, the ability to service a mortgage is better than ever. Why did he receive such a cold reception with these figures? That is because the trade unions and others would have you believe that there is a real problem with letting the market determine its own level for house prices. Sure, prices may be high, but the ability to pay is high as well. Markets tend to find their own level. If prices were too high, then people would not be buying houses, like in 1992. Supply and demand are the main issues. Higher interest rates will take care of the demand problem. As for the supply problem, perhaps the unions should place more emphasis on forcing the Government to provide infrastructure more quickly so that more houses can be built. Otherwise, shared ownership may be a viable option. A reversion to failed policies from both home and abroad, such as the 20pc requirement or the ICTU proposal, is not the answer. * James Young is an economist specialising in the European property market. 
