housing
{ BRUCE ARNOLD 
    July 21 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/books/renewed-glory-of-castletown-house-26306005.html }
Castletown House, in Celbridge, Co Kildare, has been restored to something of its former glory and will be opened by Minister Noel Ahern this afternoon at three o'clock. Earlier in the day, at another opening at Castletown, the gate lodges, which are the responsibility of Irish Landmark Trust, will also be opened. The main work on the house has been carried out by the Office of Public Works under the personal direction of OPW Commissioner David Byrne. Heaven knows what it has cost. It shows when one inspects the inner workings, architectural and building refurbishment, wiring, installation of a lift, attention to roof, walls and basement; yet it has been done with absolute discretion and restraint. A week ago, the house and the grounds immediately around it overflowed with people in yellow security jackets and hard hats completing the final stages of the work. Admittedly some of them were clearing up after Barbra Streisand, but a lot more were dealing with the final stages of the makeover. Today, the transformation is complete. Castletown is a glorious and welcome acquisition by the State. The house is the largest and the earliest of the great Irish Palladian houses, and rivals, but perhaps does not equal, Russborough for the title of the most beautiful house. William Conolly, Speaker of the Irish House of Commons, and at the time the richest man in Ireland, started the building of Castletown in 1722 to a design by the Italian, Alessandro Galilei together with Edward Lovett Pierce, who supervised the construction and was responsible for the fine entrance hall rising through two floors. The house is an architectural triumph, its grandeur characterised by exceptional yet restrained beauty. There is a formal serenity about it that makes a visit worthwhile for love of architecture alone. It took a long time to build and was not finished at Conolly's death. His great-nephew, Tom Conolly, who had married one of the Lennox sisters, Louisa, employed the Francini brothers to carry out interior plasterwork decoration. He also installed the grand staircase by Simon Vierpyl, a protege of Sir William Chambers. This is another of the outstanding features of the house. Lady Louisa Conolly carried out much of the decoration. A good deal of it has survived, and her stamp is on the house, particularly the lovely long gallery on the first floor which looks out on the Conolly Folly, put up by Speaker Conolly as a memorial to his wife after her death and designed probably by Richard Castle. The house remained in the Conolly family, passing to Tom Conolly's great-nephew, a Pakenham who changed his name to Conolly. Eventually Lord Carew owned it. It was he who sold it in 1965 for development of the land. He was a supporter of the Dublin Cats and Dogs Home and was at Forenaughts, a house near Castletown, when it opened to the public to raise money for this cause. A group of Travellers arrived and asked to see the house, somewhat to Lord Carew's alarm, but they looked at everything and then left. Soon after, another group of people came, led by Mariga Guinness, Desmond Guinness's first wife, and with Mick Jagger and Lord Gowrie 'long-haired and appropriately dressed'. Lord Carew, who thought that 'more of the first lot had arrived again', did not welcome them. They were shown into a room and it was clear they were not to be allowed round the house, so Mariga opened French windows and led her party across the lawn to Furness, Pierce Synott's house. It led to bad feeling between Pierce Synott and Lord Carew but the Dogs' Home benefited! In April of 1966 there was a big three-day sale at Castletown of the complete contents of the house. I attended that, and its impact helped to encourage the foundation of the Irish Antique Dealers' Association and their first fair during Horse Show Week. The Castletown sale attracted widespread interest with antique dealers coming from England and even further away. There had been an earlier 'Big House' sale when UCD bought Lyons House; treasures then were picked up for half-nothing. The Castletown sale was followed a year later by the purchase of the house and grounds by Desmond Guinness when it became the headquarters of the Irish Georgian Society. Valiant efforts were made at upkeep, finding furniture and pictures and decorating the property. Mariga, in jeans and jumper, was photographed painting shutters. It became one of the 'Great Irish Houses' used for summer concerts and the Long Gallery was an elegant place for baroque music, though not with the best acoustics. It is an extraordinary fact that the house survived with so little damage to structure or to the interior. Other houses had hideous developments with new portions, wings or adjacent eyesores; Castletown has kept its serenity and beauty. Lady Louisa Conolly's decorations, including her print room, survive and are part of the present attractions. In 1979 Desmond Guinness's Castletown Foundation took it over and looked after it until it was transferred to State care in 1994. It will be open seven days a week throughout the year and will be under the direction of Mary Heffernan, who also runs Farmleigh. Though prodigious and enlightened reconstruction and refurbishment has gone on for some years, accelerating in anticipation of the public opening today. Quite what the house will be used for and how this will impinge on the public, is a more questionable subject. There is a pleasant restaurant -- Claire Hanley's CHC Cafe -- in the completely refurbished West Wing. She will also have delicious treats available for takeaway and picnics in the grounds from The Larder. There will be gourmet food markets, free tours of the house and grounds and other events. The Performance Corporation and Camerata Ireland will both take up artistic residencies at Castletown. The Castletown Research Centre will be located on the top floor of the house, in collaboration with the National University of Ireland Maynooth. Other collaborative projects are in train, involving Bord Bia, The Irish Architectural Archive, the Royal Dublin Society, the Irish Georgian Society, Crann and the Irish Landmark Trust. This looks like too much collaboration and the danger -- a very real one which has been evident at times with the OPW's other handsomely funded project at Farmleigh -- is of elitism dominating the life surrounding the house. This is a glorious project and has been realised with maximum effort and expense. The potential is huge. It is important that the general public are attracted to it and are made the main focus of a dynamic life surrounding Castletown House. 
