housing
{ Kieron Brennan 
    October 12 2014 09:42 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/budget/budget-gives-us-a-chance-to-deliver-the-type-of-housing-we-want-for-society-50-years-from-now-30658382.html }
Alongside Tuesday's Budget, the Government is shortly due to publish its strategy for delivering social housing. Long overdue, it must set out clear targets for delivering new housing at a sufficient scale to tackle the crisis affecting areas with high demand.   The new strategy should mark a step change in the way this country views housing. Slow to respond to changes in market signals, and highly dependent on specific local circumstances, housing cannot be treated like any other market commodity. Rather, housing needs to be seen as a critical piece of infrastructure that is vital for delivering balanced social, economic and environmental development. The necessity for decent quality housing to help realise human dignity and the rights of the family is made painfully apparent by the stories of homeless families living from night to night in hostels and hotels, where parents are prevented by house rules from preparing a meal for their children. But the long-term consequences of stifling our competitiveness through inflated housing costs and restrictions on labour market mobility are associated with our failure to come to grips with housing provision. A housing market that fails to provide a healthy balance of types and tenures of accommodation is more vulnerable and exposed to economic shocks. Every week, new figures are published highlighting the level of housing demand in Dublin and other urban areas. Demographic trends, including our ageing population, high fertility rates and smaller household sizes show that our need for more and different housing is only going to increase. And yet, our system of social housing provision has been decimated since the onset of the economic crisis. The capital grant funding that previously supported delivery has all but ceased. The funding that is now available, helping social housing providers to borrow for new supply, is a fraction of the amount provided before. Nonetheless, Ireland's co-operative housing provider, like other housing bodies, has responded to the current challenges by harnessing private finance, working in partnership, and using innovative models to increase the number of houses it provides by 50pc since 2010. The stock of vacant and unfinished housing that allowed these models to work, however, is all but exhausted and new ways to finance the construction of new homes now need to be found. At present, new social housing is supported by government every year through the Budget. In a country where building projects regularly take two years and more from project conception through planning permission and on to completion, such a short-term approach to funding is clearly incompatible with the realities of delivery. Simply put, approved housing providers cannot gamble their tenants' rents on site acquisition, design and planning for schemes that might never be funded for delivery. Ireland's voluntary and co-operative social housing providers are committed to tackling our housing crisis and to providing secure, quality accommodation for the longer term. With more than 90,000 households currently listed on Local Authority housing waiting lists, we recognise that the scale of the challenge is vast and daunting. That is why any meaningful effort to tackle the issue must be backed by a serious, long-term commitment from government to delivering a fairer and more balanced system of housing provision. Now, we have an opportunity to start on a new path with multi-annual financing. We need a strategy that will articulate a vision of the kind of housing and society we want 50 years from now. Kieron Brennan is CEO of the National Association of Building Co-operatives (NABCO) Irish Independent 
