housing
{  
    May 14 2007 11:56 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/i-intended-to-buy-the-house-when-my-political-future-26288975.html }
SUNDAY INDEPENDENT: Given that you had succeeded in getting a bank loan for the £19,000 you say you needed to cover certain legal costs, why did you not return the 'dig-outs' raised by Gerard Brennan? BERTIE AHERN: As you are aware, my judicial separation proceedings concluded around November/December 1993. The issues which I have been explaining to the tribunal - such as why I was renting a house, why my friends gave me money and why I did not operate any bank accounts for a period of years - are all related to the circumstances of my separation. I took out the bank loan at a time when I did not know that my friends were gathering together to assist me. Shortly after taking out the loan, my friends came to me and offered me the money. I only accepted this money on the basis that it was a loan. The legal bills which I then had were not the only financial consequences of the conclusion of my marital separation, and I was not sure how things would work out for me. This was a period of great uncertainty for me and involved great personal turmoil. I did not want to rush into any decision. I therefore put the money aside, and later used it to repay the bank loan. Thus the money loaned to me was used to pay the legal costs by discharging the bank loan. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT: Were you aware of the methods used to get the donations from NCB and Des Richardson? BERTIE AHERN: No, I was not. My friends did not tell me what they were doing until they had collected the money. When the money was given to me, I was told who had contributed, but it did not occur to me to question my friends about what mechanism they had used to collect it. I was given a Bank of Ireland bank draft. Accordingly, the manner and form of payment to Mr Richardson was not apparent or disclosed. Indeed, the fact it was a bank draft rather than an NCB cheque supports my belief that the money came from Padraic O'Connor as an individual. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT: Why did Des Richardson not give you the £5,000 NCB cheque written by Padraic O'Connor, but instead handed you his own bank draft for the same amount? BERTIE AHERN: I do not know. As I have said, I did not question my friends about the mechanism they had used to collect the money. It was given to me in good faith by people who I knew to be my friends, so I had no reason to question it. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT: Why did you keep that £19,000 as a loan when you also had savings in the same bank in O'Connell Street which would have paid off the debt? BERTIE AHERN: I did not pay off the bank loan immediately but I did use the money my friends loaned me to pay off that loan at a later date. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT: Why exactly did you not begin to repay your £19,000 loan for 18 months when you had ample funds to repay it immediately? BERTIE AHERN: This was because my circumstances were still unsettled and it took a period of time before matters had been resolved. I don't believe that there is anything wrong with taking some time to pay back that loan. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT: Given that you needed to get a private address in anticipation of becoming Taoiseach, would you accept that the actions of Michael Wall in buying the house in Beresford Avenue in order to let it to you were unusual? By which I mean undertaking to finance the restructuring of it via cash payment to your partner Celia Larkin, but leaving the refurbishing to be paid for by Celia Larkin (or yourself): why was this done this way? Why did he bequeath the house to you or, in the event of your pre-deceasing him, leave it to your children? BERTIE AHERN: Michael Wall and I have been friends for a long time. We were able to deal with each other with a certain amount of flexibility which would not have occurred between a landlord and tenant who did not know each other. However, the fundamentals of our dealings were that: * I paid a market rent over the period of a two-year tenancy; * That tenancy was registered with the local authority; * When I bought the house I paid a price based on a market valuation; * and I had an option to buy the house. I don't think those fundamentals are in any way unusual. Mr Wall did not buy the house in order to let it to me. In 1994, he was making plans to buy a house in Dublin in which he could stay from time to time rather than stay in a hotel. At the same time I was making plans to rent a house. When we realised each other's plans, it seemed that the best way to proceed was that he would buy the house he wanted, I would rent it, and he could stay in it as often as he wanted. I also had an option to buy which I was definitely going to exercise at some point, once I was sure that my circumstances and political future were secure. Mr Wall, as purchaser, was obliged to pay the stamp duty. The fact that he intended letting the house does not alter this. Nor is it unusual that the owner intending to let the house would pay for structural work (such as the construction of a conservatory) and certain fixtures and fittings which enhance the value of the house. Because I was very busy and Mr Wall lives in Manchester, it seemed that the easiest thing to do would be for Ms Larkin to handle the details of the work which was to be done. Mr Wall knew that he could trust Ms Larkin to do an excellent job, which she did. In the end, about £50,000 was spent on works on, and refurbishment to, the house, contributed by both Mr Wall and I. This was done broadly on the basis that he was to pay for structural work and I was to pay for furnishings, though there was a certain amount of overlap. I have documentary support for most of this expenditure, as follows: Kinsella Interiors - £29,000.00 All Season's conservatories - £6,000.00 Weatherglaze windows - £5,250.00 Brown Thomas - £2,116.20 Miscellaneous household items for which bank records are available - £2,090.84 Total of expenditure for which documentation is available - £44,457.04 Other expenditure on matters such as an attic conversion, bathroom fittings, painting the house and so on cost several thousand Euro more, but I do not have precise details of that other expenditure. The above does not take into account the use of Mr Wall's funds to pay his stamp duty bill when he purchased the house. After I moved into the property, Mr Wall stayed with me from time to time, both while I was renting and after I bought it from him. The cash element may be unusual, but you should remember that Mr Wall was in a cash business and maintained a fleet of busses. It was quicker and more convenient for him to deal in cash. I only recently became aware that Mr Wall had left me the house in a second will which he had made, which was supplementary to his main will.I didn't know at the time that he had done that and I only found out about that will this year. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT: In 1993 there was no divorce in Ireland. There was no chance of a full and final settlement in the event of a broken marriage. Were any of your personal financial arrangements brought about by virtue of the fact that your marital separation was acrimonious? Was it not a fact that if you had property or savings, your former wife could claim a part of them? BERTIE AHERN: Family law proceedings are held in camera and the rules which apply to those proceedings mean that I am not permitted to commenton the details of those proceedings. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT: Why did you never return to Michael Wall the £30,000 in sterling handed to you in cash? BERTIE AHERN: The money in question amounted to about £28,700, which is approximately £30,000 in sterling, though the actual money given may have included an element of Irish pounds as well as sterling. I did not return that money because it was spent on the things it was intended to be spent on, that is the stamp duty which Mr Wall was required to pay on the purchase of the house and the refurbishment of the house and related expenses. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT: Is it the case that because Michael Wall invested this money in his 1995 purchase and renovation of your present house in Drumcondra, that you actually received a 'sweetheart deal' when you bought the house from him two years later, saving you about £20,000 at open market value? BERTIE AHERN: That is not the case. When I bought the property, I paid a price based on the open market value which had been established by a professional valuation. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT: How and when did you pay your marital separation legal bills? BERTIE AHERN: In or around December 1993 I paid those bills by way of bank drafts drawn against a bank loan. This isthe same loan I referred to earlier. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT: What exactly did you do with the 'dig-out' you received from your friends and associates in 1993-'94? BERTIE AHERN: Most of the money from my friends went into an account which was used to pay off the bank loan I had taken for my legal bills. The remainder - combined with my own savings - comprised the £50,000 which I gave to Ms Larkin to cover my share of the dealings with the house, such as the purchase of new furniture, carpets, curtains, and so on. Ultimately, £30,000 or so was spent on the house by me, in addition to the £20,000 or so spent by Mr Wall on the refurbishment (exclusive of the money spent by Mr Wall on his stamp duty). I put the remainder back into my bank account in December 1995. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT: Why, in your opinion, did Celia Larkin transfer an estimated £50,000 of cash from one bank account to another and then return to you a substantial portion of the cash? BERTIE AHERN: The sum of £50,000 was transferred from my accounts to an account in Ms Larkin's name to fund refurbishment and other related expenses in respect of the house at Beresford. This was done a few days after Mr Wall paid the booking deposit on the house, when it was thought the sale and rental would occur quickly. Because the account was a 28-day fixed-term deposit account, it was inconvenient, so the money was transferred to another account from which it was subsequently withdrawn. As the expenses to be defrayed from the account would be occurring with great frequency - as they related to many small items as well as several large ones - cash was a more convenient way to effect payment. Hence, the £50,000 was withdrawn. Of that sum, approximately £30,000 was so spent on the house, or items related to the house. Some time after its withdrawal, I considered giving the money to Mr Wall and thus changed some of it into sterling. As events unfolded it became unnecessary for me to do that. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT: What is the outcome, if any, of recent negotiations with the Revenue Commissioners in relation to your receipt of the 'dig-out' money? BERTIE AHERN: As I explained last September, I was professionally advised on possible tax issues relating to the payments. To avoid any ambiguities or misinterpretations I have since ensured that an independent tax adviser, on my behalf, has provided all details to the Revenue. Indeed, on his advice I made a provisional payment to cover any liability which could arise. I understand this was accepted by the Revenue, pending final agreement as to any such liability. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT: What files in relation to the purchase/sale of the house in Drumcondra did Michael Wall show you before he submitted then to the tribunal? Did he do so at your request? Did you remove any documents from this file? BERTIE AHERN: Mr Wall showed me some papers last summer to help me recall the events of 1994. I certainly did not remove any papers from his legal file. 
