housing
{  
    January 07 2015 11:44 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/television/tv-news/katie-hopkins-greeted-by-chorus-of-boos-as-celebrity-big-brother-kicks-off-30891351.html }
Controversial TV star Katie Hopkins became a pantomime villain when she was forced to choose the first two housemates to face eviction on the very first night of Celebrity Big Brother. Hopkins, who shot to fame as a losing candidate in The Apprentice, was the first celebrity to enter the house and revelled in the chorus of boos and jeers hurled her way by the public. Once inside she was immediately hidden away, and the voice of the diary room's "enchanted mirror" gave her power to pass immediate judgment on the other contestants. And she was ordered to put up for eviction the two people she found least interesting. 
Close
 Chloe Goodman entering the Celebrity Big Brother house at the start of the latest series of the Channel 5 programme at Elstree Studios, Borehamwood. PRESS ASSOCIATION Photo. Picture date: Wednesday January 7, 2015. Photo credit should read: Ian West/PA Wire  PA / After seconds of soul searching she chose model Chloe Goodman and soul singer Alexander O'Neal. Hopkins turned her acerbic tongue on each one as they entered the house, secretly saying she would not want to be stuck on a plane or in a small house with US blogger Perez Hilton "for more than 10 minutes". Former Coronation Street actor Ken Morley had the "look of someone who didn't realise what his agent has stitched him up to do" and that he looked as if he had been "let out of the care home", while Goodman, who wore a revealing red dress, "has got two assets and they are both on show". But veteran TV presenter Keith Chegwin seemed to be safe from her talons, with Hopkins saying he was "probably a gentleman. I think he is probably lovely and probably the best of British out of this bunch." 
Close
 Michelle Visage entering the Celebrity Big Brother house at the start of the latest series of the Channel 5 programme at Elstree Studios, Borehamwood. PRESS ASSOCIATION Photo. Picture date: Wednesday January 7, 2015. Photo credit should read: Ian West/PA Wire  PA / After seeing each housemate arrive, Hopkins said: "I would rather stay here in my cave than go out with that bunch of..." And once the final celebrity had arrived Hopkins was told she would have to choose the first two housemates to go up for public eviction. But she faced one curse - she was ordered to console those she chose, and from then on be nice to everyone in the house, only revealing her true opinions in the diary room. The enchanted mirror told her: "From now until further notice you will be utterly charming to everyone, warm generous and full of kindness... "You will be sweetness and light until further notice. but can be self in diary room." Hopkins appeared to choke on the order, saying "I will do what I like", but she put forward two names - Goodman and O'Neal - living up to her proclamation before entering the house that she would "swat" any housemates who annoy her. Hopkins is well-known for her abrasive personal style and regular on-screen clashes with other guests on shows including This Morning. Just last week she was caught up in controversy again when she criticised people who "dial the cop shop every time we feel offended online" after she was reported to police over her Twitter outburst about the Scottish nurse who is fighting Ebola. Asked how she will deal with housemates trying to provoke her, she said: "There will be people trying to get their moment of telly by annoying me, so I will swat them away. "But then if you get some people who actually think what they're saying and believe it then sure, I'll probably go for that. People will get pretty much what they have seen before from me, which is straight-talking Katie." Among the celebrities sharing the house with her are Baywatch actor Jeremy Jackson, singer Kavana, former Coronation Street actor Morley, American TV star Michelle Visage and Loose Women host Nadia Sawalha. One housemate likely to clash with Hopkins is model Alicia Douvall who said she would hate to share the house with her. She said: "There are rumours about Katie Hopkins. I definitely do not want to be in a house with her." Chegwin, already a firm favourite with the bookmakers to win the show, said he was hoping for a bit of conflict in the house and would not act as a peacemaker if arguments broke out. He said: "Mediation is fantastic but it's not my job to do it. I'll probably end up watching it like a viewer, thinking 'Go for it'". The other celebrities who entered the house tonight are Patsy Kensit, Hilton, O'Neal, Goodman, George Best's son Calum and model Cami Li Celebrity Big Brother started life as a spin-off of the main show on Channel 4 before both were dropped and then picked up by rival broadcaster Channel 5. Last year's series, won by US actor Gary Busey, was the second most complained-about show of 2014 - only topped by complaints about the regular version of the show. Online Editors 
