housing
{ PAUL DEERING 
    March 26 2010 01:58 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/lifestyle/bringing-a-new-approach-to-the-longstanding-issue-of-traveller-accommodation-27570144.html }
Over the past number of years tremendous strides have been made when it comes to providing housing for the Travelling community. A thorny subject at the best of times, we have only to look at the history of our own town in relation to this topic to ascertain how emotive it can be. Housing members of the Travelling Community can evoke passionate arguments some unfortunately which can border on racism and the downright criminal. Indeed, the mere mention of Connaughton Road car park in the centre of Sligo, where an extended Travelling family has lived for up on 20 years, can bring forth some serious opinions from those in the settled community (for want of a better term). Over the past number of years it has been heartening to see a gradual end to families living on the sides of road in Sligo in conditions that could only be described as third world. It was shameful to say the least that as the Celtic Tiger roared around the country we still had families on the roadside with no running water or sanitary facilities. While many people are quick to complain about Travellers and where they live such as in city centre car parks, few people are willing to offer constructive advice on what can be done to redress the situation. Overall, in Sligo, there has been much done in terms of housing Traveller families whether in houses or in designated halting sites. The choice of houses or halting sites is obviously one for those involved and Sligo has saw Traveller families availing of both over the past number of years. Many Traveller families have opted to be housed in local housing estates while the Council has also pressed ahead with halting sites at Ballyfree, Collooney and Ash Lane while another at Finisklin Road is currently being re-built. While those in the settled community might have strong views on such accommodation I think it is only fair that Travellers have the right to decide themselves what is the most suitable type of home, be it a halting site or house and of course, the design of same. Imposing solutions does not work. What should be kept upper most in people's minds is the need to get these families off the sides of roads. Integration into communities and the respect of same can only follow if they are treated equally in terms of the provision of basic human necessities. A lot of work has gone into the Travelling Housing Programme in Sligo and there has been many successes. It was with interest that I came across the views of Clúid housing association which highlighted what its chairperson said were the benefits of a stakeholder approach to Traveller housing for Sligo County Council. Success in delivering housing solutions that meet the needs of Travellers in Sligo in a sustainable, cost-effective way - can be achieved through taking a strong stakeholder approach, with ongoing dialogue at all stages of planning and construction, said Simon Brooke, Chairperson of Clúid Housing Association. According to Mr. Brooke, the Castlebrook housing development - which was recently launched by Clúid in Dublin - provided a model for how successful, cost-effective Traveller accommodation can be developed by local authorities throughout Ireland, including Sligo County Council. Castlebrook is home to four generations of the extended McDonagh family, living in seven separate households. It was developed by South Dublin County Council, in partnership with Clúid, and with the direct involvement of the McDonagh family at every stage. "The idea of promoting dialogue between all stakeholders in a housing development is not rocketscience, but - too often - it has been overlooked in delivering housing programmes to meet Travellers' needs," said Mr. Brooke. "While communicating at all stages in the delivery of a housing project may take time, the long-term benefits mean that the outcome is more sustainable and costeffective." He said that based on the experiences at Castlebrook, Cluid would urge all those involved in Traveller accommodation in Sligo to adopt a stakeholder approach to future developments. "Traveller families like to live together, so accommodation for Travellers is more effective if its focus is on extended families comprising multiple households, rather than on individual housing units. The traditional local authority model of housing allocation - whereby properties were allocated on an individual basis as they became vacant - meant that Travellers often moved into houses reluctantly and discovered soon after that they missed their extended family and suffered extreme isolation," he said. As a result, he pointed out, they sometimes didn't show due care to the accommodation provided, and the local authorities in question reacted by not carrying out maintenance or repairs. "A breakdown in relations ensued. To people outside this environment looking in, their worst prejudices about Travellers were confirmed, and prejudices persisted whenever discussions took place on the development of housing for Travellers. This was, in effect, a vicious circle. In contrast, the Castlebrook development has proven to be a win-win situation for all involved and could serve as a model for Sligo County Council and other local authorities," he said. Mr. Brooke revealed that as a result of the stakeholder consultation approach adopted for the Castlebrook project, the McDonagh family had input into the location, design and development of their houses. They were also able to suggest small changes that meant the development became reflective of their Traveller culture. Such changes included eliminating boundary walls at the front of each house to give more of a community feel; making the interior space of each house more open-plan, and providing greater natural light by increasing the size of the windows to acknowledge the outdoor and open-space nature of the family's heritage. It would appear to be a very sensible approach. Maybe it's already happening in Sligo and if it's not would it not be worth trying. Take for example the halting site currently being redeveloped at Finisklin. Have Travellers had an imput into the development? I know from the history of the site that its proximity to electricity pylons has been a cause of great concern to those who resided there in the past and I wonder if this same problem will not arise again in the future. Mr. Brooke says that Clúid Housing Association will work over the coming months to promote the Castlebrook model of Traveller housing to Sligo County Council and to local authorities throughout Ireland. "The Castlebrook project shows how important and effective it is to directly involve Traveller families in the planning and development of Traveller housing schemes," he said. "The approach we took to this project should serve as a model and blueprint for future Traveller housing projects, not only in Dublin and in County Sligo but throughout the country," he said. What Cluid is saying makes sense. Anyone building their own house has a complete say over its design and why shouldn't Travellers expect the same? 
