housing
{  
    May 18 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/councillor-unhappy-with-amount-of-social-housing-in-the-area-27747343.html }
A proposal to build 26 council houses in Kilcoole has been passed but a local councillor has claimed that the village is being treated unfairly and has been earmarked for social housing. A social housing development was also approved for Rathdrum.Cllr Tom Fortune said that he was not against social housing but said there was an imbalance in the development taking place in Kilco Fortune says Kilcoole is being unfairly treated A proposal to build 26 council houses in Kilcoole has been passed but a local councillor has claimed that the village is being treated unfairly and has been earmarked for social housing. A social housing development was also approved for Rathdrum. Cllr Tom Fortune said that he was not against social housing but said there was an imbalance in the development taking place in Kilcoole. The part eight planning notice for the proposed construction of 26 houses at Cooldross, Kilcoole, came before Monday's meeting of Wicklow County Council. The proposal was recommended by the director of housing services. Cllr George Jones said he was not against the proposal but said that the element of housing in Kilcoole was only coming from the local authority and that every town needed a mix of development. 'We're forging ahead on one side but private housing is not proceeding,' he said suggesting that the officials at the top table should encourage private housing development in the town. Cllr Nicky Kelly agreed that a mix of housing was needed but said that more social housing was needed to 'make a dent' in the housing list. Cllr Kathleen Kellaher pointed out that there were a number of private developments on the planning list for Kilcoole at the moment and said that she felt there was a reasonably good social mix in Kilcoole. Cllr Fortune countered that he was speaking on behalf of the people of Kilcoole who felt that the village had been earmarked for a particular type of development. 'I'm not against social housing but there is an abundance of social housing in Kilcoole,' he said. He came in for criticism from Cllr Pat Vance. 'These people don't want social housing anywhere and they want to leave 1,500 people on our housing list,' he commented. Housing director, Des O'Brien, disagreed with Cllr Fortune. He said there was a lot of private housing in the pipeline. He also dismissed figures presented during the meeting which suggested that 54 percent of the housing in Kilcoole was social housing. He said the figure came to less than one third. He said the Kilcoole scheme was relatively small and bounded by an industrial estate, a 30 year old social housing development and existing private housing. Councillors also approved a part eight planning proposal for the construction of 25 houses at Brewery Road, Rathdrum. 
