housing
{  
    May 01 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/permission-additional-info-refusals-withdrawn-27775198.html }
Decision to grant permission was made in respect of the following applications: A. Kelly Fairacre, Swords Road, Malahide, for 4 no. revised bungalows with dormer accommodation on approved development (Planning Ref. F00A/1247) to site at rear at Fairacre, Swords Road, Malahide. Anthony Slein, Ronan Melling and Robert Lee., Unit 3, Feltrim Industrial Estate, Swords, for 1. New extension to front incorporating entrance to existing play area with ancillary office space; 2. Additional storage space on site; 3. New signage at existing entrance to Feltrim Industrial Park at Unit 3, Feltrim Industrial Park, Drynam Road, Swords. Mr & Mrs N O’Neill, 14 Carrickhill Close, Portmarnock, for single storey extension at front at 14 Carrickhill Close, Portmarnock. J Ryan, 16 Carrickhill Close, Portmarnock, for single storey extension at front at 16 Carrickhill Close, Portmarnock. Con & Brid Walsh, 7 The Strand, Baldoyle Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, to construct timber decking balcony to rear of house first floor area 3.64sq.m. with timber stairs on eastern side of balcony and to rear of balcony to ground level at Hideaway House, The Strand, Malahide. David Prendergast, 9 St Cronan’s View, Brackenstown Road, Swords, for single storey extension to front elevation and single storey detached games room storage to rear garden at 9 Saint Cronan's View, Swords. E. McLoughlin, 270 Seapark, Malahide, for extension to existing side dormer towards the front of house at 270 Seapark, Malahide. Michael Branagan, Alison Ryan, Liam & Marian Carabini, John & Ciara Bracken for 4 detached dwellings on separate sites, two of which will have detached garages, the other two will have integrated garages. As part of this development it is proposed to dedicate an area of 6.1 hectares as public open space to Fingal County Council. Access to the development will be from the Rush-Skerries Road. The access road to the development will also provide access for pedestrians and maintenance vehicles only through the landscaped buffer zone to the open space at Holmpatrick, Rush Road, Skerries. Michael Smith-Keary, HFC Bank Regional Estates Manager, 100/101 Coventry Street, Kidderminister, Worcs, DY10 2BH, England, for change of use to part of ground floor level from retail to office use and signage at previously approved 3 storey over basement office and commercial development (reg. ref. F99A/1527; PL 06F.118731) at Complex 1, New Street at Rear of 45 Main Street, Swords. John Andrews & P. McNamee, Blackhall, Balbriggan, for 1) Demolition of existing shed and greenhouses, 2) Construction of single and two storey Nursing Home (Approx. 5200 sq.m.) comprising of residents rooms (29 no. ensuite double bedsitting rooms and 24 no. ensuite single bedsitting rooms), communal rooms (lounges, dining room, activity rooms etc.) Day-care facilities, kitchen ancillary rooms (laundry, storage, boiler room etc.) Administration rooms, professional consulting rooms and Hydrotherapy centre, 3) New site entrance to northern end of site and associated siteworks, landscaping and carparking, 4) Conversion of existing dwelling house to provide staff quarters at Blackhall. Irish Power Systems Ltd., Dunsink Power Station, Dunsink Lane, Finglas, to relocate plant and facilities to a new compound within the existing landfill site at Balleally, Lusk, Co Dublin to include the five no. generators and to replace the existing E.S.B. Sub-Stations, gas pumps and office store with similar facilities and to provide an additional store at Balleally, Lusk. Dwyer Nolan Developments Ltd., Stonebridge House, Stonebridge Close, Shankill, for residential development with a total of 157 No. dwellings consisting of 34 no. 4 bed semi-detached houses, 85 no. 3 bed semi detached houses, 18 no. 3 bed terraced houses and 20 no. 2 bed terraced houses including public open space, infastructural works and site services on a site of circa 14.1 acres with access from existing permitted east west distributor road connecting Kilhedge Lane with Ministers Road being Phase 2 of an overall development. As part of this development an area of Class 1 Public Open Space of circa 1.48 acres is being provided to the east of the Dublin Road and South of Lusk Village. Phase 1 of the development Reg. Ref. F00A/1366, Phase 1A of the development - Reg. Ref. F01A/1388 at south of Kelly Park, Lusk. J. McCabe, P. Daly, Louvain, Grove Road, Malahide, for 10 houses and 30 apartments consisting of 4 four bedroomed dormer style houses and 6 three bedroomed two storey houses, and 30 apartments (consisting of 6 one bedroomed apartments and 24 two bedroomed apartments in three separate pavilion style apartment blocks of two storeys plus dormer (2.5 storeys), and the demolition of two existing dwelling houses (Woodbine House and Malvern) and sheds on lands at The Hill, Malahide. F. Cassidy, St Anthonys, Hearse Road, Donabate, for revised permission sought subject to further information request of planning Ref. no. F01A/0877 for single storey 84 sq.m. extension and alterations to existing 64 sq.m. house and provision of new biocycle wastewater treatment system and associated site works at St. Anthony's, Hearse Road, Donabate. B & M Ryan Little Acre, Newtown, Corduff, Lusk, for single storey extension to front and rear of dwelling at Little Acre, Newtown, Corduff, Lusk. Joe and Joyce Penrose, 18 The Park, Orlynn Park, Lusk, for change of use from domestic room to play group in an existing extension to the rear at 18 The Park, Orlynn Park, Lusk. McGarrell Reilly Developments Ltd., Iveagh Court, Harcourt Road, Dublin 2, for amendments to approved plans F02A/0579 to now change 1 no. house, house no. 512, from a four bedroomed two storey house to a five bedroomed two storey house and associated development works at Skerries Road, Lusk, Dublin The Island Golf Club, Corballis, Donabate, for placing 90m of buried rock filled mattress as scour protection to the toe of the dune system on the eastern boundary of the 14th fairway and replanting with marran grass, at lands adjacent to Malahide Point at Malahide Point, Corballis, Donabate. Linmac Ltd., Campus Petrol Station, Grange, Ballyboughal, to demolish the existing shop building and forecourt and to construct a new single storey building to incorporate a retail shop, post office, stores and office and construct a new petrol station forecourt to include two underground fuel storage tanks, fuel dispensing pumps with canopy over, signage, boundary walls and associated ground works at Campus Petrol Station, Grange, Ballyboughal. Paula Hickey, Inch Road, Balbriggan, for dormer bungalow and attached garage, with septic tank waste water system at Inch Road, Balbriggan. David Mooney & Daniella Ayruth, 21 The Crescent, Melrose Park, Swords, for 2 storey end-terrace house at side at 21 The Crescent, Melrose Park, Swords. Decision to refuse permission was made in respect of the following applications: Lisa Nash Reamount Farm, Lusk, for self contained crèche facility, wastewater treatment system and associated works on site at Reamount Farm, Lusk. Kevin and Patricia Monks Oldtown, for dormer bungalow, garage and open new entrance at Oldtown. Decision to grant permission and grant retention was made in respect of the following application: W.P. Keeling & Sons Ltd., Roslin, St Margaret's, Swords, for on-site accommodation units (Total area 1663 sq.m.), which are to be provided as prescribed by Variation No. 22 (New Local Objective dated 09/12/02) to the Fingal County Council Development Plan 1999. Permission is sought for retention and expansion of the on-site effluent treatment system and ancillary site works associated with the accommodation units at Brazil Nursery, Brackenstown Road, Swords. Decision to request additional information was made in respect of the following application: Kilcarne Estates Ltd., 48 New Street, Dublin 8, for construction of 2 new self contained motor showrooms, each comprising car showrooms, mezzanine level, workshop, staff facilities, ancillary offices, car wash, valet structure, ESB substation, open-air car display, car parking, associated drainage, boundary treatment and landscaping, and associated free standing and attached illuminated corporate signage. There will be 2 entrances accessing the development from the recently approved distributor road serving the lands as per register reference no. F02A/1217, Decision order no. 3661 at Nevinstown, Swords. Sean Travers, Newtown, Garristown, for land reclamation at Newtown, Garristown. Hugh Donnelly, 27 Baths Road, Balbriggan, for two storey granny flat extension to side at 27 Baths Road, Balbriggan. Pat Neville Developments Ltd., P.O. Box 63, Nunns Lane, Wexford, for variation of house types within development granted permission under F00A/1464. The proposed development comprises the erection of 20 no. 3 bed, 3 storey houses, 2 no. 4 bed 3 storey houses, 4 no. 2 bed two storey houses, 4 no. 3 storey apartment blocks comprising a total of 28 no. 2 bed apartments and 2 no. 1 bedroom apartments, and the provision of car parking spaces and ancillary site development works at Flemingtown and Bremore, west and south off Hamlet Lane, Balbriggan. Thomas Connolly, The Homestead Guesthouse, off Back Road, Malahide, for permission for the following changes to an existing guesthouse: (a) Change of use of bedroom nos 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 from domestic to guesthouse use; (b) retention of attic store and 2 no. dormer windows; (c) retention of balcony; (d) retention of staff quarters building; (e) new apex roof to existing dormer window at The Homestead Guesthouse, off Back Road, Malahide. Homecroft Developments Ltd., Old Road, Rush, for six no. 2 two storey houses at Kilbush Lane, Rush. Stewart Collier, 93 Turvey Woods, Donabate, for proposed residential development comprising of 13 (no) units as follows; 11 (no) three bed townhouses and 2 (no) one bed apartment units, together with all ancillary site development works at Regles, The Green, Lusk. Invalid applications: Eamonn Jennings, 1 Riverside, Ballyboughal, for hallway extension forming porch area 2x2 square metres a 1 Riverside, Ballyboughal. Tim Comerford, 18 Hilltown Grove, Swords, for new 2 storey detached dwelling and driveway on site to side at 18 Hilltown Grove, Swords. S. and A. Keogh, 15 Seamount View, Swords, for single storey kitchen extension to rear, single storey utility room and toilet extension including new pitched roof to existing garage to side and extended livingroom to front at 15 Seamount View, Swords. P. Kettle, Drishogue, Ballyboughal, to erect a dormer bungalow, biocycle waste water treatment unit and new entrance at Drishogue, Ballyboughal. L. Mahon, 43 Forest Crescent, Rivervalley, Swords, for first floor extended attic conversion to rear at 43 Forest Crescent, Rivervalley, Swords. B & S O’Casey, 5 Brookdale Lawns, Hilltown, Swords, for modifications to house type (previously Reg. Ref. F02A/0769) at rear. Modifications consist of changes to elevations and increase in floor area at 4 Station Road, Portmarnock. M. Mulrooney, 38 Daleview Road, Swords, for alterations to existing dwelling house with associated site services at 38 Daleview Road, Swords. P. Kavanagh, 19 Swords Manor Way, Brackenstown, Swords, for single storey extension to the side and rear at 19 Swords Manor Way, Brackenstown, Swords. Decision to refuse permission was made in respect of the following applications: Therese Staunton, 5 South Shore Road, Rush, for single storey extension for 3 extra ensuite bedrooms at rere covered passage for B & B, being amendment of permission already granted P/0873/98 at 5 South Shore Road, Rush. P & C Caul, 18 Seatown Terrace, Swords, for 2 x 2 storey semi-detached houses with associated car parking spaces at 18 Seatown Terrace, Swords. Brian Tumulty & Bernadette McElwee, 4 Gainsborough Green, Malahide, for single storey extension over existing garage at first floor level and new timber cladding to front of garage and side entrance at 29 St Margarets Road, Malahide. Decision to refuse permission for retention was made in respect of the following applications: R Bell, Greenbanks, Rogerstown, Rush, for renovation and single storey extension to side of existing holiday home to include new chimney to south east elevation at Greenbanks, Rogerstown, Rush. O2 Communications (Irl) Ltd., O2 House, 76 Lower Baggot Street, Dublin 2, to retain the existing 30 metre support structure carrying GSM antennae link dishes plus telecommunications exchange containers, (See Fingal Co. Co. Reg. Ref. F96A/0252) including 30m high lattice mast; 9 no. GSM antennas; 16 no. link dish/drum antennas ranging in diameter from 1.2m, 0.6m and 0.3m; 2 no. telecommunications exchange equipment containers; generator room; security fencing and access. This development forms part of O2 Communications Ireland Ltd mobile telecommunications network (GSM) at Murphy's Quarry, Hollywood Great. 
