housing
{  
    April 14 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/localnotes/new-houses-extensions-main-planning-applications-26899828.html }
Permission sought by Nell McAvoy, 78 New Road, Silverbridge, Newry for two storey dwelling, waste water treatment system and associated site works at Reaghstown, Ardee. Permission sought by Liam and Nessa Archbold, 118 Shrewsbury Manor, Greenhills, Drogheda for two storey dwelling with detached garage, secondary waste water treatment system and all ancillary works at Brawnsto Permission sought by 
Nell McAvoy, 78 New Road, Silverbridge, Newry for two storey dwelling, waste water treatment system and associated site works at Reaghstown, Ardee. Permission sought by 
Liam and Nessa Archbold, 118 Shrewsbury Manor, Greenhills, Drogheda for two storey dwelling with detached garage, secondary waste water treatment system and all ancillary works at Brawnstown, Monasterboice. Permission sought by 
Catherine Loughlin, Rohanmor, New Road, Bellurgan for hobby workshop and classic vehicle storage, change of site boundry and associated site works at Rohanmor. Permission sought by 
Terry and Mary Kennedy, Adamstown, Dunleer for revised site boundaries, revised location of house, domestic garage, waste water treatment unit and percolation area at Willistown, Dunleer. Permission sought by 
Niall Wiseman, 1 The Laurels, Dundalk for retention of a house incorporating the demolition of a previous house on site and permission for alteration to the front elevation of the house for which retention planning permission is being sought at New Line, The Square, Blackrock. Permission sought by 
Kevin Hughes, Loughantarve, Knockbridge to replace existing septic tank with new waste water treatment system and new bungalow type house, waste water treatment system and associated site development works at Loughatarve. Permission sought by 
Amy Doherty and Mark McArdle, Carrickaneena, Mountpleasant for dormer house, waste water treatment system and associated site development works at Carrickaneena. Permission sought by 
Siobhan McEneaney, Aghnaskeagh, Mountpleasant for domestic garage / shed at Aghnaskeagh. Permission sought by 
Pat and Eleanor Wehrly, Jenkinstown for extension and alterations to house and associated site works at Jenkinstown. Permission sought by 
John O'Hanlon, Caraban, Ravensdale for dormer style house, waste water treatment plant and associated site works at Doolargy, Ravensdale. Permission sought by 
Sean Keenan, Aghameen, Dundalk for alterations and extension to existing house comprising attic conversion, new pitched roof to existing single storey rear annex and new single storey extension and associated site works at Aghameen. Permission sought by 
Chris Lennon, 7 Strand Hill, Clogherhead for house previously granted outline 02/1150 and for detached domestic garage at Ballygassan, Dunleer. Permission sought by 
Anne Thompson, 141 Garvaghy Road, Portadown, Co Armagh for 2 storey dwelling and sewerage waste water treatment system at Gibstown. Permission sought by 
David Staunton, 136 Manydown Close, Red Barns Road, Dundalk to construct replacement house, new roof to the existing dwelling and change of use to storage also stone boundary wall, entrance gates and timber boundary fencing at Mooretown, Dromiskin. Permission sought by 
Paul Gallagher, Balriggan, Kilcurry for erection of a dwelling, domestic garage and associated site works at 13 Hamilton Drive, Rock Road, Blackrock. Permission sought by 
Lorcan McEvoy, Tobertoby, Termonfeckin for demolition of existing habitable house and construction of new one and a half storey replacement house with provision of new entrance and driveway off existing access laneway, partial demolition of outhouses to provide access to front of dwelling, together with replacement of existing septic tank with proprietrary waste water treatment system and percolation area, and all associated site development works at Tobertoby. Permission sought by 
Francis Murray, 7 St Malachys Terrrace, Tullyallen for 4 bedroom, two storey dormer dwelling with garage, waste water treatment system and associated site works at Lynchs Cross, Mellifont, Tullyallen. Permission sought by 
Leonita Lord, Ballnacree, Oldcastle, Co Meath for 1.5 storey house at Annaghvacky, Hackballscross. Permission sought by 
Manor Park Homebuilders Ltd., The Gables, Torquay Road, Dublin 2 for 56 additional parking spaces on the north west side of Heron Street and within the centre of Aston Village as an amendment to previously granted permission no 02/1626 at Aston Village, Termonfeckin Road, Newtownstalaban, Drogheda. Permission sought by 
Ferguson Shellfish Ltd., Greenore Road, Carlingford for change of house type relating to plot no's 63,64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 39 and 70 previously granted permission under ref no 00/612, a housing development consisting of 81 residential units at Liberties, Carlingford. Permission sought by 
Terry Doran, Millgrange, Greenore for relocation of existing entrance to house from public road and associated site works at Millgrange, Greenore. Permission sought by 
Mary Martin, Ballaghan, Greenore for retention of relocated house granted planning permission under ref no 98/753 and permission for conversion of attic space to habitable acommodation and associated site works at Ballaghan. Permission sought by 
Lorraine Ryan, 26 Ard Easmuinn, Dundalk for 2 Storey dwelling, proprietary waste water treatment system and ancillary siteworks (opp 03/1716) at Site no 8, Loughanmore, Lordship. Permission sought by 
WandC Murphy, Rampark, Jenkinstown for a domestic garage to the rear of the property at Rampark. Permission sought by 
Derek and Sonia Flanagan, Tullykeel, Ardee for as constructed location of house and waste water treatment unit at Tullykeel. Permission sought by 
Brendan Duffy, Ardee Road, Dundalk for 2 storey building incorporating a childrens creche at ground floor with 2 residental apartments overhead and all associated site works at Dawsons Demesne, Ardee. Permission sought by 
Niall Lynch, Main Road, Tullyallen for the construction of an ESB MV substation and associated site works at Main Road, Tullyallen. Permission sought by 
Patrick and Vera Marron, Stifyans, Dunleer for proposed extension to existing house at Stifyans, Dunleer. Permission sought by 
Martin McGovern, Greenlanes, Dromin for basement garage at Greenlanes. Permission sought by 
Manor Park Homebuilders Ltd., The Gables, Torquay Road, Foxrock, Dublin 18 for additional parking spaces for staff only within the service yard of block 'A' (supermarket), relocate the gates into service yard to the westerly side and new truck turning bay located on the west side of Heron Street, Aston Village, Termonfeckin Road, Newtownsalaban. Permission sought by 
Christopher Douglas, Cordoogan, Monasterboice for retention of removal of soilbank/rockface, remedial works to secure rockface and site improvement works at 1 Fairview, Blackrock. Permission sought by 
Eamon and Emer Fogarty, 13 Woodgrove Heights, Dunleer to erect a house with attic storage area from landing, installation of a waste water treatment system, vehicular Road entrance at Mosstown South, Dunleer. Permission sought by 
Gearoid Carroll, North Commons, Carlingford for demolition of existing house and construction of a new house and all associated site works at Chapel Hill, Carlingford. Outline permission sought by 
Conor and Siobhan Hanratty, C/O Aoife Hanratty, Kirwans Cross, Tinure, Dunleer for wastewater treatment system and ancililary works at Maidens Cross, Priestown, Monasterboice. Permission sought by 
Manorpark Homebuilders Ltd., The Gables, Torquay, Foxrock, Dublin 18 for one bay of assitional parking spaces located on the north-east side of Curlew Street opposite block 'D' (creche) at Aston Village, off Termonfeckin Road, Newtownsalaban, Drogheda. Permission sought by 
Donal Conroy, Tullagee, Knockbridge for a two storey dwelling domestic garage, waste water treatment system and associated site works at Tullagee. Permission sought by 
Barry Conroy, Tullagee, Knockbridge for two storey dwelling, domestic garage, waste water treatment system and associated site works at Tullagee. Permission sought by 
MB Construction Ltd., The Commons, Dromiskin for a two storey dwelling and the installation of a waste water treatment system and percolation area at Louth Hall, Tallanstown. Permission sought by 
Terry and Anne Halpenny, Tullykeel, Ardee for retention of house, revised site boundaries and domestic sewage disposal system and associated works previously granted under Ref-03/1615 at Tullykeel. Permission sought by 
Roddy McCollum, Drumnacarra, Ravensdale for alterations to existing dwelling to consist of the conversion of existing attic space to habitable space incorporating dormer windows and chimney to side elevation at Drumnacarra. Permission sought by 
Hugh Leddy, Butlersbridge, Co Cavan for the removal of existing boundary walls and hedgerow at road; demolition of existing single storey house and domestic garage; construction of six number two storey 3 bed townhouses; terrace style in one block; four number 2 bed apartments in a two storey block; two number 2 bed single storey houses (total 12); construction of entrance, access road and footpaths; connection to all public services and associated site ancillary works at Hale Street, Ardee. Permission sought by 
Eamon Byrne, Dromiskin for change of use from retail unit granted under previous planning ref 03/1086 and 98/1255 to take away outlet at Dromiskin Village. 
