housing
{  
    March 24 2018 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/news/237k-houses-unfair-on-squeezed-middle-36722277.html }
The sum being spent on social houses in Gorey and Wexford was questioned by Cllr Joe Sullivan, who said it is unfair that the 'squeezed middle' of Gorey can't afford to live in houses of similar quality. Cllr Malcolm Byrne welcomed the purchase of 57 properties in Wexford town and Gorey. The average price of Wexford properties comes to €229,429 and €237,100 in Gorey. 'I do realise property prices are going up but these are higher values than current property prices in the town. Are we satisfied that we are getting the best value for money? They are bulk purchases, 35 houses in Wexford and 22 houses in Gorey.' Cllr Byrne said taxpayers money is being used. 'Yes, we do need to address the social housing issue. When you are paying more than what average house prices are including new houses in other developments, I want an absolute assurance there has been an appropriate investigation that this money is being spent wisely.' Director of Services John Carley said he was sure a detailed process was implemented, adding 'we are getting value for money'. Director of Services Tony Larkin said: 'These are new builds. It's a new estate. I know two schemes coming into the market in 2019 in Gorey which are more expensive by quite a way than these houses.' CEO Tom Enright said the new houses are of a higher energy standard, higher than the A rated houses on the market presently. 'By the time these houses are delivered no doubt prices will have increased. The Whiterock development is part of an overall private development. There is a premium we have to pay as it can impact the overall 'saleability'. We are very happy that there is value for money here as these are sustainable, low maintenance houses.' Chairman John Hegarty said: 'This is a good news story, you are turning it into a bad news story. This is something we have been crying out for in Gorey and Wexford.' Cllr Byrne said he wanted an assurance the council was getting the best value for money. Mr Enright said the company employed to build the houses is local and local people will be employed building the projects. 'It will also help to kickstart private development, so it's good news all round.' Cllr Sullivan said he shared Cllr Byrne's concerns while acknowledging that houses are needed. 'What about the young couple who gets up at 6 a.m. and drives to Dublin and gets a mortgage for €200,000 to pay for a house that was built ten to 12 years ago. Then a person, for whatever reason, who is unemployed gets a social house that is better. Are we sending out the right message to a sector of society who are being squeezed when houses are readily available in Gorey for between €185,000 and €215,000. They are not A rated but were built within the last ten to 15 years in estates like Ramsgate and Meadowgate and Hazelwood.' Cllr Sullivan asked if some of these houses can be sourced through the council's house acquisition programme. Senior Housing Officer Padraig O'Gorman said Gorey is a difficult town to purchase houses in. 'This is the first substantial programme we have had for turnkeys. We are still in the market for houses.' Mr Enright said: 'We are not giving these houses away for free. In some cases rent can be sustantial. This is a function we have as a council. In terms of young couples travelling to Dublin we have a mortgage scheme with fixed rate mortgages for them.' Cllr Davy Hynes said: 'I would just as soon see a normal sized house being built if it can be built cheaper. People are as entitled as anyone else to a home. Often social houses are built better than private houses.' Cllr Lisa McDonald suggested that the council follow what councils in the UK have been doing by building modular houses. Gorey Guardian 
