housing
{ WORDS: Fintan Lambe PICTURES: Ger Leacy 
    October 11 2011 10:37 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/opinion/it-is-a-money-pit-every-penny-we-have-is-going-into-it-all-we-want-to-do-is-to-try-and-preserve-it-as-good-as-we-can-but-its-going-to-be-a-long-project-27510463.html }
AS A TEENAGER, Ulrich, or Uli Rosler could often be found rattling around the empty corridors of his parents' expansive 19th Century mansion all by himself. 'It can be scary here at night on your own,' he admitted. 'There are all sorts of noises - from the livestock nearby, and the bats in the attic. You wouldn't want to be too nervous. 'Coming from Germany, I was used to a bungalow. This was slightly different.' He came to Wells House, a striking manor house set on 450 acres outside Ballyedmond, Co. Wexford, after his father, a German industrialist bought the property in the 1960s. 'When I came here first, there was a big cannon pointed out an attic window onto the driveway,' he recalled. 'We were well armed! But the whole place was quite considerably run down when my parents bought it.' The cannon is long since gone, but the area where it once stood in the attic is still there. His summer holidays as a teenager were spent with a blow torch scraping paint off window shutters and painting ceilings etc. 'I had my own parties here as well,' he added. For any passing motorist who has taken a fleeting glance through the pillars as they drive on the coast road between Gorey and Wexford, the house presents a striking vista, down a long avenue, which is lined with magnificent ancient oak trees. 'During my teenage years, when I went off to discos with friends, the people who dropped me back home on a rainy night, they all left me at the gate, and said you can go down there yourself,' he laughed. 'When I walked down in the dark, all the crows would rise from the trees.' The young Uli befriended Mogue Crowe, who worked on the estate all his life. 'He took me under his wing, and he showed me what life on a farm was, and he also supplied us with a television,' said Uli. 'Well, we had one television with a picture, and another with sound.' Uli's parents Gerhard and Giesla did a lot of work preserving the house in the sixties, installing central heating and restoring the entire roof. Gerhard passed away in 2006 at the age of 95, while Mrs. Rosler still lives on the grounds. From the 1970s to 2004, the grounds of Wells House were open to the public. The old stables were converted by the family into holiday chalets; there was a playground and giant chess set on site; and a restaurant in another building was also a popular venue for parties. One of the out buildings was also later turned into a bowling alley. However, the main house itself was always a family home, and was never open to the public. In 2007, the house and a portion of land were put on the market, and a sale to a local farmer was agreed in 2008. The contents of the house were subsequently auctioned off, as they weren't part of the sale. Fortunately for Uli and Sabine, the deal subsequently fell through, but the house then lay empty, vulnerable to the ravages of time, damp, and the elements. The property came into the ownership of Uli and his wife Sabine seven months ago. 'My mother didn't want to let it fall into total disrepair,' said Uli. He runs a farm on site, while Sabine works as an accountant. However, in their spare time, they've set about the unenviable task of restoring the house and its Elizabethan gardens to their former glory. In the long term, they plan to open up the grounds, and the house itself, to the general public, but it could depend on securing some form of grant aid, as the challenge of preservation and restoration is immense. They've also had to start refurnishing the house, and are trawling auctions for period furniture. Exploring the four stories of the house, one gets the impression they have caught the house just in time, before major structural work is required. 'It is a money pit,' agreed Uli. 'Every penny we have is going into it. All we want to do is to try and preserve it as good as we can, but it's going to be a long project.' Using the original 1835 plans, they've already begun work on restoring the back lawn, and a low bordering wall. 'Mowing alone takes two full days,' said Uli. They've also cut through dense vegetation to reshape some of the hedging, and over a kilometre of woodland walks in the 100 acre wood have so far been cleared. It's also hoped to dig out the clogged up man-made lake in the grounds. 'We're looking into funding in order to be able to open the house and grounds to the public,' said Sabine. 'We've started researching the possibilities. We don't intend to have it hidden away from the public. I think it will be a flagship project for North Wexford. We will do a feasibility study which will determine which part opens when.' Sally Finn Kelsey is also researching the history of the house, and the people who lived there. Uli and Sabine would love to hear from anyone who worked in the house, or has family who visited, lived, or worked there. The Tudor Gothic style house, designed by Daniel Robertson, dates back to the Victorian era, and was completed by the Doyne family in 1835. It was built on the site of a previous house, which was incorporated into the new building. Wells was one of the best known farms in the 1800s, as the family used to breed an Aberdeen Angus Herd. The 'Big House' survived the troubles in the 1920s, when the local priest blockaded the gates, preventing anyone from going down to burn it. He did so because the family were good to local people. Charles Mervyn Doyne, who was born in 1839, died in 1924 and left the house to his son who did not want to live in Ireland. He put the estate on the market and his sister Kathleen bought the house and 450 acres. Kathleen died 1938 and left the estate to her nephew, who subsequently sold it to Gerhard Rosler in the early 1960s. Many of the house's original interiors remain largely intact. The stunning high ceilinged reception rooms contain original wood panelling, with recessed sash windows. The original library, with its book lined walls, includes three hidden doors which pose as book casing. The drawing room, the Versailles room, is the most impressive, with its 'fleur de lis' decor. Even the ceilings are ornately decorated. The dining table is more than ample for even the largest of families. From the servants' quarters in the attic, to the expansive basement, the house is full of hidden surprises, and authentic features. The original servants' bells in the attic each have a different ring tone, to signify which room to go to. The house is reputed to have 365 windows, one for each day of the year. Various legends are also attached to the house, including the story of The White Lady, who apparently walks its grounds, but neither Sabine nor Uli have ever seen her. The chimneys are full of crows, so there are enough noises at night, without ghosts clanking around. Uli and Sabine also say they sleep in their clothes in the house, such is the expense of heating the place. It also has just two bathrooms. 'If you bring a glass to bed in the winter, it's frozen in the morning,' said Sabine. 'We don't want to let it deteriorate any further, and keeping it locked up away from everybody isn't the answer either,' she said. 'We want to bring everybody on the journey with us.' Whether or not they will reintroduce the cannon in the attic, remains to be seen! Anyone interested in regular updates on their progress, can follow Wells House on Facebook. AS A TEENAGER, Ulrich, or Uli Rosler could often be found rattling around the empty corridors of his parents' expansive 19th Century mansion all by himself. 'It can be scary here at night on your own,' he admitted. 'There are all sorts of noises - from the livestock nearby, and the bats in the attic. You wouldn't want to be too nervous. 'Coming from Germany, I was used to a bungalow. This was slightly different.' He came to Wells House, a striking manor house set on 450 acres outside Ballyedmond, Co. Wexford, after his father, a German industrialist bought the property in the 1960s. 'When I came here first, there was a big cannon pointed out an attic window onto the driveway,' he recalled. 'We were well armed! But the whole place was quite considerably run down when my parents bought it.' The cannon is long since gone, but the area where it once stood in the attic is still there. His summer holidays as a teenager were spent with a blow torch scraping paint off window shutters and painting ceilings etc. 'I had my own parties here as well,' he added. For any passing motorist who has taken a fleeting glance through the pillars as they drive on the coast road between Gorey and Wexford, the house presents a striking vista, down a long avenue, which is lined with magnificent ancient oak trees. 'During my teenage years, when I went off to discos with friends, the people who dropped me back home on a rainy night, they all left me at the gate, and said you can go down there yourself,' he laughed. 'When I walked down in the dark, all the crows would rise from the trees.' The young Uli befriended Mogue Crowe, who worked on the estate all his life. 'He took me under his wing, and he showed me what life on a farm was, and he also supplied us with a television,' said Uli. 'Well, we had one television with a picture, and another with sound.' Uli's parents Gerhard and Giesla did a lot of work preserving the house in the sixties, installing central heating and restoring the entire roof. Gerhard passed away in 2006 at the age of 95, while Mrs. Rosler still lives on the grounds. From the 1970s to 2004, the grounds of Wells House were open to the public. The old stables were converted by the family into holiday chalets; there was a playground and giant chess set on site; and a restaurant in another building was also a popular venue for parties. One of the out buildings was also later turned into a bowling alley. However, the main house itself was always a family home, and was never open to the public. In 2007, the house and a portion of land were put on the market, and a sale to a local farmer was agreed in 2008. The contents of the house were subsequently auctioned off, as they weren't part of the sale. Fortunately for Uli and Sabine, the deal subsequently fell through, but the house then lay empty, vulnerable to the ravages of time, damp, and the elements. The property came into the ownership of Uli and his wife Sabine seven months ago. 'My mother didn't want to let it fall into total disrepair,' said Uli. He runs a farm on site, while Sabine works as an accountant. However, in their spare time, they've set about the unenviable task of restoring the house and its Elizabethan gardens to their former glory. In the long term, they plan to open up the grounds, and the house itself, to the general public, but it could depend on securing some form of grant aid, as the challenge of preservation and restoration is immense. They've also had to start refurnishing the house, and are trawling auctions for period furniture. Exploring the four stories of the house, one gets the impression they have caught the house just in time, before major structural work is required. 'It is a money pit,' agreed Uli. 'Every penny we have is going into it. All we want to do is to try and preserve it as good as we can, but it's going to be a long project.' Using the original 1835 plans, they've already begun work on restoring the back lawn, and a low bordering wall. 'Mowing alone takes two full days,' said Uli. They've also cut through dense vegetation to reshape some of the hedging, and over a kilometre of woodland walks in the 100 acre wood have so far been cleared. It's also hoped to dig out the clogged up man-made lake in the grounds. 'We're looking into funding in order to be able to open the house and grounds to the public,' said Sabine. 'We've started researching the possibilities. We don't intend to have it hidden away from the public. I think it will be a flagship project for North Wexford. We will do a feasibility study which will determine which part opens when.' Sally Finn Kelsey is also researching the history of the house, and the people who lived there. Uli and Sabine would love to hear from anyone who worked in the house, or has family who visited, lived, or worked there. The Tudor Gothic style house, designed by Daniel Robertson, dates back to the Victorian era, and was completed by the Doyne family in 1835. It was built on the site of a previous house, which was incorporated into the new building. Wells was one of the best known farms in the 1800s, as the family used to breed an Aberdeen Angus Herd. The 'Big House' survived the troubles in the 1920s, when the local priest blockaded the gates, preventing anyone from going down to burn it. He did so because the family were good to local people. Charles Mervyn Doyne, who was born in 1839, died in 1924 and left the house to his son who did not want to live in Ireland. He put the estate on the market and his sister Kathleen bought the house and 450 acres. Kathleen died 1938 and left the estate to her nephew, who subsequently sold it to Gerhard Rosler in the early 1960s. Many of the house's original interiors remain largely intact. The stunning high ceilinged reception rooms contain original wood panelling, with recessed sash windows. The original library, with its book lined walls, includes three hidden doors which pose as book casing. The drawing room, the Versailles room, is the most impressive, with its 'fleur de lis' decor. Even the ceilings are ornately decorated. The dining table is more than ample for even the largest of families. From the servants' quarters in the attic, to the expansive basement, the house is full of hidden surprises, and authentic features. The original servants' bells in the attic each have a different ring tone, to signify which room to go to. The house is reputed to have 365 windows, one for each day of the year. Various legends are also attached to the house, including the story of The White Lady, who apparently walks its grounds, but neither Sabine nor Uli have ever seen her. The chimneys are full of crows, so there are enough noises at night, without ghosts clanking around. Uli and Sabine also say they sleep in their clothes in the house, such is the expense of heating the place. It also has just two bathrooms. 'If you bring a glass to bed in the winter, it's frozen in the morning,' said Sabine. 'We don't want to let it deteriorate any further, and keeping it locked up away from everybody isn't the answer either,' she said. 'We want to bring everybody on the journey with us.' Whether or not they will reintroduce the cannon in the attic, remains to be seen! Anyone interested in regular updates on their progress, can follow Wells House on Facebook. 
