housing
{ Conor Skehan 
    September 16 2018 05:30 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/a-plague-on-all-our-houses-if-politicians-push-for-quick-fixes-37320427.html }
Like all brand new things, the early announcements of the Land Development Agency (LDA) are a mixed bag. It contains some very smart ideas and high ambitions - as well as a few getting-in-its-own-way bloopers.  It will take time to bed in and the devil will be in the detail of the legislation. Properly framed and executed, it should be welcomed as a critical intervention to address the effect of boom and bust cycles on the provision of social housing.  The more that it deviates from this narrow and proper role, the more it has the potential to repeat some of the worst mistakes of well-intentioned government interventions in housing. On the bright side, the self-stated, most fundamental of all of its objectives is addressing the long-term issue of the effect of boom-bust cycles on the provision of social and affordable housing. This really, really good, smart, important idea is often lost throughout the announcement by politically understandable promises of short-term projects to fix the housing crisis. The boss of the LDA is going to need to be like a skipper in a storm who holds steadfastly to the true compass bearing, ignoring the nagging of the nervous nellies all around for 'early wins' and quick fixes - there are none.  The second smart idea is the approach that has been learnt from Nama of aiming to establish a professional, expert delivery platform with an emphasis on procurement of delivery partners and - critically - of sharing this expertise with other State agency delivery partners. The more the LDA tries to become a development agency, like the Dublin Docklands Development Authority, the more likely it is to fail. It needs to learn from Nama and remain high level and light touch.  The announcement gives another early hope for optimism by floating imaginative proposals such as the operation of a development licence mechanism across all local authorities, thereby avoiding duplication of effort from an ad hoc approach. It would make readers weep to witness the transaction costs when two State agencies buy land off each other.  Then there's the clever idea of providing assistance, and bridging finance, in relocating inefficiently located activities to alternative sites, creating land swap opportunities with other bodies or capitalising owners to acquire alternative sites. Our old-fashioned  Dad (Decide Announce Defend) system of public administration means that any notes of caution can be treated as hostile - a pity, because it can prevent good ideas like this from being even better, by learning from past mistakes. And we have made a lot of mistakes in housing. The biggest past mistakes have all stemmed from well-intentioned initiatives like this. All of the greatest disasters in Irish housing - Darndale, Ballymun and Moyross - have had the following characteristics. They were based upon the importation of successful examples from abroad. They were implemented by a State agency. They were based upon meeting theoretical needs - as opposed to practical ones. They were put in place without due regard to the practicalities of management or maintenance. The greatest destruction of housing-based wealth in the ghost estates was caused by well-intentioned State-led incentives to develop housing in areas of non-existent need - the Rural Renewal Scheme for the Upper Shannon. Mistakes are there to be learnt from, so that we can move on and be better next time. There are some pretty fundamental issues that are unresolved. The term  'State land' gets bandied about without due regard for the fact that the biggest landholders - such as Coillte, Bord na Mona, Irish Rail etc - are all commercial organisations with legal mandates to get the best commercial returns on all transactions.  This requirement will also create some challenges for the LDA which will need to demonstrate similar financial probity while pursuing 'affordability' which runs counter to profitability.  The other unresolved issue is the role and relationship with the local authority system. They are mentioned only once in all of the documents. Building social housing is the easy bit; managing it is the real skill. Will the LDA become a 'fire-and-forget' agency, burdening hard-pressed, under-resourced local authorities with unwanted, unneeded or unsuitable housing developed in areas where there were available sites, rather than demonstrable need?  The expertise, intelligence and local knowledge of Ireland's housing authorities must be woven into the LDA from the outset - this will be a critical test for the legislation. Without this, it will be stillborn.  The table that accompanies the announcement shows worrying early evidence of this tendency (proposing 600-plus houses for Balbriggan, where there is an official need for 309 houses - or Skerries, where it is proposed to supply 200 homes and the official demand estimate is "no supply required").  One of the first lessons that we teach planners is to learn the difference between 'site-led' and 'needs-led' development. The former is a disaster, the latter is a service. The difference is crucial. The laudable idea of partnership will also need to be pretty imaginative when it comes to disposing of State assets to developers without transgressing rules about both value for money and transparency.  The announcement provides rock-solid advice about not throwing fuel on to the fire of an already-hot land market by competing on prime land acquisitions throughout the country. It is critical to heed this advice because we are at the beginning of the recovery phase - just as land prices begin to accelerate. If we allow 18-24 months to get the LDA established, this means that any purchases will take place during the phase of recovery of the most rapidly increasing land prices - a case of "too much, too late". The LDA will need to begin by listening to its own advice. Ireland is entering a new era - that will need new approaches to deal with new issues. This does not just need new institutions - it needs new approaches. This is a good start, though it remains full of unresolved contradictions. Let us wish it well and concentrate on the positives and the possibilities. The true success of the LDA will not be evident until around 2025 when the current economic cycle will be at, or past, its peak. In that year the chief executive will have completed the first five-year term. If successful, the list of achievements will look something like this. We have made a good start of addressing the problem of stop-start public housing supply.  We are facing into a seven-year slump with a good landbank in areas that are suitable for social housing. We have access to funding - from partners in pension funds and others who value long-term, secure returns from public housing - that will not depend on a shrinking public purse. We succeeded in getting the pension funds of teachers, gardai and civil servants to invest heavily in affordable housing schemes for young members - to keep borrowing off the public accounts. We succeeded in establishing deep partnerships with the local authorities and housing co-ops to professionally manage this new stock of social housing. We succeeded in side-stepping the calls of the self-serving elements of the construction industry - who clamoured for us to ignore the advice that we needed to mostly apply ourselves to build-to-rent to meet new demographic demands. We succeeded as facilitators and integrators - earning ourselves our much-quoted motto "bringing the best to the best and hoping for the best". We succeeded in getting all parties to copy our stance of a whole-of-housing approach - where social, affordable, rental and owned housing are all seen as one large interacting system. We have a group of trusted partners - developers, financiers and housing managers - with whom we have a track record of performance in providing excellent, suitable and affordable homes - where they are needed and when they are needed.  Our monitoring system has a pretty clear idea of the types and location of housing requirement - though we'll continue to monitor this on a quarterly basis as these factors change rapidly during the emerging recession. We can give the Government one small bit of good news in these increasingly gloomy days - namely a guaranteed level of housebuilding activity that will produce employment, economic activity and tax returns in the lean years ahead.  We can also assure the Government that as the economy contracts, wages shrink and unemployment rises, the resultant increase in demand for social and affordable housing can be met.  As that CEO puts the finishing touches to the first five-year review, there will be a wry smile, thinking back on how hard it was to fight off the pressure from the building industry which looked for cheap sites or from the Government looking for quick answers.  The five years of patient resistance to calls for quick fixes and prudence to always keep an eye on the long-term goal of sustainable, affordable home delivery will only now begin to yield a return. This success will, of course, have many claims of paternity.  Readers in 2025 may be permitted to join the CEO's wry smile, remembering how many of those who seek credit now were those who tried to use the LDA to pour petrol on the flames of the building boom back in 2019 and 2020. Conor Skehan lectures at DIT on planning and housing Sunday Independent 
