housing
{  
    January 23 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/why-1m-wont-buy-the-house-of-your-dreams-26253035.html }
Geraldine Niland on how even those with a seven figure sum in their back pockets can be disappointed in the property auction rooms`SO you want to know what a million pounds will get you?'' Ian Finnegan of Finnegan Menton cuts to the chase straight away. ``A diamond ring for Catherine Zeta Jones, a small pad in Dublin or a large villa in Morocco.'' He has reason to be gleeful, having pulled off a record price for a terraced period house in Monkstown just before Christmas for just short of £1.5m. Two years ago, it fetched £520,000 in a private sale. Just ten years ago, a buyer with a quarter of a million was enough to have any estate agent in a devotional trance. Then five years ago it took about £1m to warrant any kind of mogul status. Now it will just about bring you in reach of the underbidders' league. Then the plus factor kicks in to concentrate the minds of the winners. House hunting in this league is now a bittersweet chase for a scarce semi or terraced house, albeit period in a prime location. Many seasoned property connoisseurs are gobsmacked by the recent tide of £1m plus sales. This state of affairs drew a now legendary auction room scene eighteen months ago when a senior auctioneer stopped a public auction for a terraced house in Longford Terrace in Monkstown when the bidding had reached £500,000. He turned to the audience and said: ``Who would ever have thought that a terraced house in Monkstown would fetch £500,000? It's pure madness.'' The gavel finally fell at £546,000. Last year there were 56 £1m plus sales double the number for the year before. As this season opens, all estate agents report dozens of buyers on their books. These are made up of underbidders from last year together with a crop of new blood drawn from the professional and business ranks who want to trade up. Most will carry some equity matched with a salary of around £150,000 per annum, which makes them gilt-edged borrowers for the lending institutions. According to one lending institution source, this profile means it's easier for these people to access a £1m mortgage than it is for the less well-heeled a to get £15,000 loan on a £40,000 house. Disposable income is the key to freeing up the lenders. Provisional figures from the Revenue Commissioners plot the steady rise of the millionaire class. The numbers of people earning a gross salary of between £100,000-£150,000 per annum has risen from 4,963 in the 1997-1998 tax year to 5,597 in 1998-1999, with an estimated 7,007 this year. But for many prospective buyers the problem is the supply of good quality family homes in prime locations. Auctioneers now talk about a new price scale, which is pitched between £850,000 - £1.2m. The bottom end of that scale is just about what a £1m buyer can hope to achieve. ``A buyer will secure a very good property for over £1m,'' according to Tom Day of Lisney, which recorded its best performance last year. The areas singled out are Dublin 4 and Dublin 6 with primary roads being Highfield Road and Orwell Road in Rathgar, Park Avenue in Sandymount and Wellington Road in Ballsbridge. CERTAIN properties are now the preserve of multi-millionaires. Some houses on Shewsbury Road will, he predicts, come to market now with a price tag of over £4m. ``You should be able to buy a good period or turn of the century semi-detached home with five bedrooms and a reasonable family garden three miles from Dublin for over £1m,'' says Simon Ensor of Sherry Fitzgerald. And while estate agents believe there will be an overall increase of 15-20 per cent in the house market, houses at this end of the market are likely to see a more pronounced price jump. ``£1m won't take you into old Killiney, Dalkey or old Monkstown now,'' says Ronan O'Hara of Hamilton Osborne King. ``Last year homes sold at just over £1m didn't even make it into the top twenty sales figures for the year.'' Alva Gunne, one of the chief negotiators for Gunne auctioneers is under pressure to deliver stock to service their list of potential buyers too. ``The activity has been huge but it is a matter of battling with the supply.'' Last year she sold a house in Leeson Street for £1.4m for which bidding started at £900,000. As the first houses go under the hammer in mid-February, the story for this season will begin to unravel. Advertising campaigns begin to get underway in the next ten days as all the auction house negotiators finalise deals. Lisney will lead off its selling season with a detached period house in the Dublin 4-6 area, flagged to sell at over £1m. Hamilton Osborne will launch its portfolio at the beginning of February with a house in Dalkey and Sherry Fitzgerald has three houses in the Dublin 4 area. Gunne auctioneers is, in the coming weeks, likely to be selling agent for a new development in Clonskeagh with a price tag of £850,000 plus. It will be March before the market begins to see any great volume of properties, as sellers wait for spring to add its touch to homes' market appeal. In the meantime it may be advisable to throw some loose equity to the futures market to stretch that million. Trading up this season will take you into one very mean poker game where a £1m hand may not be enough to silence the gavel. With the market for new houses still in overdrive, Stephen Dodd reports on the emergence of the latest suburban status symbol - the £1m housing estate THE estate motto at Carrickmines Wood glowed with self-congratulation: ``Because you recognise quality,'' the developer's pamphlets assured. A more cynical observer might have been forgiven for adding: ``And because you've struck it rich.'' When Ireland's first ever million-pound housing estate went on show to the public in the Foxrock area of Dublin, the lucky 16 new owners were already snugly secure in the knowledge that none of the homes was actually for sale. Such was the demand for new houses with stellar price-tags that all of the available properties had already been bought off the plans. The houses, named after Irish literary giants, ranged in price from a hefty £1.2m to a relatively modest £900,000. For this, the lucky owners of the Beckett, the Yeats, the Swift, the Shaw, the Joyce or the Kavanagh got their passport into the most exclusive estate ever built in this country. By the time the official opening day came round, pre-sale publicity had hyped Carrickmines Wood into national prominence. Wannabe buyers crowded the building site, peering through the windows of the show homes. Mercedes coupés and BMW convertibles cruised by, their drivers peering out at the scene. At the time, auctioneers forecast a rush of £1m-plus new estates in the Dublin area, but despite the obvious demand Carrickmines Wood was heavily over-subscribed it hasn't happened. Estate agent Ronan O'Driscoll of Hamilton Osborne King, the man behind the Carrickmines sale, admits the forecasts were wrong. ``I anticipated quite a number of other estates would be developed,'' he says. ``None has, even though Carrickmines Wood proved the market clearly exists for that type of estate.'' One of the problems for future luxury estates is that building land is not available in Dublin's more exclusive areas. Ireland's new moneyed elite, the upper professional classes and the newly-rich techno-workers, have brought a new class of buyer to the market, but no homes are being built for them. ``These buyers are mostly young,'' says Ronan O'Driscoll. ``They want estates because they like the fact that there is security. These are people with families, and on estates there is somewhere for their children to play with other children,'' he says. There are other advantages, of course, to lure the financially-astute new millionaires into estate life. Stamp duty, still a substantial burden in the second-hand market, is eased considerably for buyers of new houses, where tax is payable only on the site value of the property. Anyone buying a £1m second-hand house would have to pay £90,000 in tax, whereas the same sum spent on a new home would involve a tax debt of only £12,500. Since Carrickmines Wood, new plans for housing estates have often favoured higher density accommodation, a suddenly attractive option in the post-Bacon Report era. Higher densities can mean bigger profits for developers, and as a result, apartment building has once more become a priority in a market where new housing inevitably responds to profit rather than need. For the future, the big-money estates are likely to spring up outside Dublin in the commuter belts of Kildare and Meath, although experts predict that even here, few homes will break the £1m mark, with luxury houses priced instead at between £500,000 and £750,000. THE country's second £1m estate, however, will hit the headlines again this year when Auburn in Malahide, Co Dublin, is opened. The estate of 50 homes, many of which have already been sold, has prices of up to £1.5m each. The Parkway group, developers of Auburn, offers an intriguing new gimmick to prospective buyers. The blueprint for the estate was worked out after Parkway took designers to a number of upper-echelon estates in England's Home Counties the exclusive commuter belt around London. The eventual design was inspired by an estate in Surrey, but buyers can add decorative details of their own. When they agree to buy, future owners visit the developers and pare down the final design to fit their own tastes. So long as the houses have black roofs, pale walls and boundary railings, anything goes. The developers provide long lists of high-quality materials from which buyers can mix and match to design their ideal home.  ``Anyone who's got a million pounds to spend on a new house is obviously a successful person,'' commented auctioneer Declan Cassidy from Gunnes, who is handling the estate sale. ``They don't have the time to be driving down to Wexford looking at stones.'' 
