housing
{  
    February 13 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/59000-miracle-houses-26159767.html }
A new three-bedroomed house with all the extras for just £59,000 may sound too good to be true. But a new development in Carlow is offering just that, providing a miracle answer for many first-time buyers. Now the property developer responsible says he is prepared to build similar houses anywhere there is space available. So why isn't it being done in the rest of the country? Patrick Brennan reports You're a young couple. You've searched till you're blue in the face but you still haven't found a house you can afford. Even renting is beginning to stretch your resources. Then, when you're about to give up, the miracle happens. There it is. Three-bedroomed houses for less than 60,000. You can't believe your eyes or your ears. You pinch yourself but it's true. The housing development offering what sounds like the miracle cure for today's exorbitant house price disease is The Laurels in Carlow. Prices for three-bedroomed semi-detached, mid-terraced and end of terrace houses range from £59,000 to the mid-sixties. Not surprisingly, these property bargains have been snapped up. Carlow is not too far from Dublin. It's a beautiful part of the country. And the land around Carlow is not cheap. So how is it being done? Frank O'Brien is the property developer responsible for the houses that have caught the imagination of the country. He's an experienced name in the construction industry. His company is called Nariton Construction and Holdings Limited. The question is, though, how can he produce houses for such a low price? ``The most important thing is the cost of the land,'' responds builder Frank O' Brien. ``We were able to buy the 14 acres that these 151 houses are built on for a very reasonable price. Sites are way too expensive in places like Dublin.'' But it's not just the cost of the land. There are other factors as well involved in the £59,000 miracle three bed houses in Carlow. O'Brien sources his materials as cheaply as possible without compromising on quality. Wage rates in the country are lower than in Dublin and he uses a production line building system to get maximum productivity for the wages he pays. And he is prepared to take a much smaller builder's profit margin than greedier builders elsewhere who are using the boom to maximise profits. Frank O'Brien points out that 90pc of the materials in the houses in The Laurels are bought in the locality of Wicklow, Wexford and Carlow. There hasn't been any cheap cost-cutting. All the windows are double-glazed. There's aluminium rainwater gutters and each home comes fitted with gas central heating and a convector gas fire. O'Brien sources his materials in the country where prices are lower. ``I'm prepared to come and build houses like these anywhere in the country providing the space is available,'' continues Frank. ``The Carlow County Council have been brilliant. This was agricultural land until they zoned it for housing. They didn't delay about sorting things out.'' O'Brien employs a sort of production-line system of building which he says makes him more cost-efficient. He gets the foundations laid. Then, all the bricklayers are brought in at the one time. Followed by all the carpenters. Next, the electricians. And so on. ``Using this technique means we can get houses finished very quickly and that saves money,'' he states. ``The more speedily we can get them done, the less time wasted and the faster we can sell them. Consequently, the better value we can sell the house for. We also believe in not leaving anything about a development unfinished. It's just a matter of efficiency.'' Naturally the auctioneers, O'Farrell's of Barrack Street in Carlow, and Frank O'Brien, stress that there's nothing cheap about The Laurels. O'Brien is a member of the Irish Home Builders Association. Each construction carries a 10 year structural guarantee and protection from Radon gas emissions in compliance with building regulations. The houses come in blocks of four, three and two. A single dwelling is 850 square feet. Not huge but O'Brien is eager to show that the interior design maximises on space wherever possible. The three bedrooms are quite spacious. Downstairs contains a sitting-room, dining-room and kitchen with a second toilet added to the semi-detached and end-terraced homes. ``Actually, my daughter is an interior designer,'' adds O'Brien. ``I asked her to design these houses as if she were going to live in one herself. That's why you get little innovations like wardrobes fitted on top of the stairs space in your box-bedroom. There's also gardens, back and front, don't forget.'' The back garden is a sizeable 11 metres long and seven-and-a-half metres wide. O'Brien concedes the kind of economising of space he's achieved can be done anywhere. The problem, he asserts, is that in places like Dublin house prices have risen by 82pc in the last two years. That's an exorbitant increase. There is a belief within some sections of the property industry that builders are adding to the problem by wondering how far they can hike up the price scale when it comes to charging the punters. Auctioneer Pat O'Farrell reiterates that in this case everyone involved set out from the beginning with the intention of keeping the price low. They were prepared to keep their profit margins at a reasonable level to create a more competitive, affordable and a quick sale. O'Farrell maintains the policy has worked. They've sold £6m worth of houses in record time. The first-time buyer's grant of £3,000 and no stamp duty reduces the cost of The Laurels homes even further from the £59,000 base price. According to Pat O'Farrell, people have been coming from all over the country to buy these houses, a good number as investments or to rent. So far a massive 50pc of the buyers have come from Dublin, 24pc hail from the rest of Ireland, including Clare, Galway, Donegal and Kerry. The remaining purchasers are from the Carlow region. ``On Thursday morning I had a mother on to me on behalf of her son in the US,'' says Pat O'Farrell. ``He heard it on the Internet and wants her to purchase a house. Most of the people from Dublin are the sort who can't afford to buy or rent in the city at this stage. They're going to commute to work daily.'' One such couple who took Thursday off and travelled down from Dublin to purchase their first home is Joe Joyce and Mary Conneely. They're engaged to be married. They've been searching in Dublin for the past six months and can't find anything below £100,000. They both work in Dublin. Joe is from Clondalkin and works for Esat. Mary is a civil servant and originally from The Aran Islands. They're looking for a semi-detached. These houses, however, are selling so fast that the one they selected on the site was sold five minutes earlier in the auctioneer's office. They have to rush in to Carlow town to ensure they get their second choice. `I would be worried about all the commuting but we haven't got any choice,'' says Mary Conneely. ``Anyway, if you use the M50 motorway then it's only an hour to work. Lots of people living in Dublin and its outskirts take as long to get to their jobs every day. At least, we won't be driving in traffic.'' Frank O'Brien points out that Carlow has everything Dublin has, but though The Laurels is within walking distance of the town, you can see the mountains and countryside all around you. There's even an ancient Rath on the area, which they will have to fence off. It's a preserved feature. The River Burren, a tributary of The Barrow acts as a natural boundary to the site. The Laurels are bargains by English property standards as well, apparently. Twenty-year-old James Good has just bought two houses on behalf of his mother, a marketing manager in Cheshire in England. Mary Good originally comes from Carlow and will eventually move back in a few years time. She will rent her Laurels' homes. The auctioneer expects all 151 houses in The Laurels to be completed by this time next year. He's a conscientious builder, one who puts a priority on health and safety standards in his work place and in the homes he builds. He likes to include plenty of green areas. You believe him when he says it's important that his developments are human friendly. ``I just think it's crazy,'' says Frank finally, ``people are paying anything up to a £130,000 for single bedsits and even more for apartments when it is possible to do what we've done anywhere in the country. We have to get the county councils moving to re-zone more residential land. That's the answer, ultimately.''  The big question is, if they can do it in Carlow why can't they do it in Dublin and elsewhere? 
