housing
{  
    July 31 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/tenants-intimidated-out-of-their-26910962.html }
Tenants who had moved into a Council house were intimidated into leaving within days, it was revealed at the monthly meeting of Dundalk Town Council. People not wanting to stay in local authority estates was one of the reasons why the Council had so many houses boarded up waiting to be relet, members were told. Colr Kevin Meenan raised the issue of houses being left vacant, saying that there were about 22 houses waiting to be re-let at the minute. He wondered if there was any possibility of repairs being carried out to them quicker. The longer the houses were left vacant, the more money the Council was losing through loss of rent. The empty houses were also causing problems for those living beside them as rubbish was being dumped in them and people were afraid of fires starting in them. He urged that the Council employ staff to clear the backlog as it was a serious problem which needed to be addressed. “Re-lets are lying there for months and months,” he said. Housing Officer Mr. Jim Byrne said that the houses which come up for re-letting were in various states of repair. Even when a house is almost ready to be re-let, it could be broken into and the work undone. Town Engineer Ms Catherine Duff said there had been a substantial increase in the number of houses coming up for re-letting with 70 last year but there was no budget for repairs to them. Three additional temporary employees had been assigned to the engineer in charge of housing repairs but there was no additional money and he was trying to work within budget. Colr Meenan said that the empty houses had resulted in people being threatened and the Gardai were afraid to go to the alleyways as they had been attacked in the past. A lot of people were leaving houses which were end houses or adjoining alleyways or open spaces. Colr Seamus Keelan wondered if money from the Estate Management Fund could be used for the repairs. “People are living in fear,” Colr Martin Bellew, adding that he was amazed at the number of houses which were boarded up in Council estates. “It’s giving areas a bad name. The majority of people are decent people, working hard to provide for their families but it’s these houses stuck in the middle that are attracting undesirables.” He said people were “praying’ for the introduction of the anti-social policy and he hoped that their expectations wouldn’t be unfounded. Mr. Jim Byrne said that the guidelines for the policy should be available shortly. He said that there were problems with re-letting houses when in some cases, families left the houses they had been allocated after just a few weeks. “Councillors would not believe the condition of some houses that are returned to the Council,” said Town Clerk Mr. Frank Pentony, adding that the Council often had to spend ?3,000 or ?4,000 before re-letting a house. At the moment tenants only had to pay a ?100 deposit but he felt the Council should be looking for something like a ?500 deposit. While he accepted that it would be “a draconian measure” for some people, it was happening in the private sector. There were cases where people left houses after a few weeks and he recalled that one family had to leave a house as they felt they were intimidated. “They came to us and said they could not stay in the house,” he told the meeting, adding that the family had to be accommodated in a b&b. “Those people were intimidated out of the house.” Part of the reason they were having so many relets was that some people who go into Council estates, couldn’t ‘hack it’, and move back into private dwellings. Colr Sean Kenna said that some houses were handed back in good condition and suggested that houses be allocated to people as soon as they become vacant. He knew that a lot of people would have no problem with having a carpenter around for a few days and it would be better than boarding up the houses. Mr. Byrne replied that often the Council was the last to know if a house was being vacated. “If a tenant moved in and we were doing repairs it would be a public liability nightmare,” he stated. He added that some houses were getting very difficult to let. Colr Bellew proposed that they write to the Minister outlining the difficulty they were facing and asking for funds so they could tackle it once and for all. Chairman Colr Seamus Byrne felt the problem was getting worse and worse and that they should have a special meeting to discuss it. Colr Keelan suggested that a Garda representative be present at such a meeting. 
