housing
{ James Young 
    July 29 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/why-its-so-hard-to-take-the-steam-out-of-property-prices-25940971.html }
IT IS rather ironic that the Permanent/TSB ESRI house price index revealed a jump of  over 7pc in house prices for the first six months of the year just a day after the biggest  local authority in the country appeared to promise reduced housing costs under its  County Development Plan. The Cork Development Plan promised reduced house prices due to the provision of higher density housing. Can the Cork plan take the steam out of house prices and provide a model for other areas? After all, none of the other initiatives or previous development plans over the past five years have led to house price increases in line with inflation, as the news on prices clearly indicates. The answer is no, simply because development plans take little notice of the market in which they are operating and there is a striking imbalance between planners' aspirations and economic reality. As the graphic illustrates the steady rise in house prices nationally continues. House prices have now risen by 14.7pc over the last year and the average price of a house now stands at just over ?220,000. The figures also show that house prices in Dublin have more than trebled since 1996. While higher densities is a step in the right direction on the supply side, the rest of the plan appears to reverse and actually act against an increased supply of housing that is demanded within the marketplace. In other words, you allow higher density houses that fewer and fewer people want to buy. The plan also envisages a 'green belt' being developed that will restrict housing development outside the urban corridors established by the council. While this may be a laudable goal in protecting the rural environment and ensuring efficient use of infrastructure resources, green belts invariably push up house prices by further restricting supply in areas where people wish to buy houses. For as much as planners may hate it, most people with families prefer houses over apartments and prefer to have a garden and other facilities for children. For examples of how 'green belts' can push up prices and restrict housing availability in the long term, let's look at the recent experience of Portland, Oregon in the US, which has some of the highest house prices in North America. With the establishment of 'green belts' about 20 years ago, Portland, Oregon has experience skyrocketing house prices as employment grew and demand increased, despite massive land rezonings within the urban boundary. As densities increased, the desirability of houses with a garden and space for children increased markedly. As housing affordability was squeezed within the urban boundary, people began looking at houses outside the urban area with gardens and amenities that are not available in high density developments and created a huge demand for housing on the other side of the 'green belt.' As a result, many people in Portland commute up to an hour and a half each way from their 'rural' house to their 'urban' employment. Now, house prices outside the urban growth boundary are rising fast and are becoming unaffordable. The knock-on effect of this 'green belt' has been to make Portland a very expensive city in which to move a business, as employees demand higher pay to purchase housing. Housing inflation in the Portland area during this time has outpaced almost every urban area in the US, even over the past 12 months. All of the other great 'visions' of planners to reduce the economic strain of purchasing a home have failed to date, as the results show. The establishment of 'green belts' promise to undo even the most basic attempts to redress the supply imbalance for houses that people actually want to buy. Planners will therefore continue to lament that they cannot change people's preference for a larger home with a garden in a suburban or rural setting. As a result, they will introduce further restrictions in relation to density and location and drive prices further up. The economic consequences of development plans can be dire, not just for homeowners, but also for the attractiveness of an area for business relocation. While 'bungalow blight' may be a 'problem', the solution does not lie in adopting the failed strategies of other urban areas. James Young is an economist specialising in the European property market. 
