housing
{  
    June 28 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/residents-unhappy-at-council-buying-11-garrybawn-houses-26921428.html }
Residents from Garrybawn handed letters to members of Dundalk Urban Council before last nights meeting protesting at the Councils purchasing of eleven houses in their estate. Housing Officer Mr. Jim Byrne told the meeting that the Council had paid £1.227mil for 11 houses in the private estate off Tom Bellew Avenue. They had bought six bungalows and five two-storey houses, all three bedroomed. This worked out at approx £109,000 each. The houses had remained unsold for two or three years and the developer had been anxious to sell them. Colr Jim Ryan said that the new Planning Act was supposed to ensure affordable housing, which for a young couple on the average industrial wage amounts to £70,000. He wondered how they were going to get affordable housing if the Council was buying houses for £110,000. He felt that the Act was only a cosmetic exercise to make people think that something was being done. Mr. Byrne said that affordable housing was a relative term, and the bulk of people on the Council’s housing list were single parents with one or two children. He couldn’t see the circumstances where they could fund any loan even if the houses were going for half the price. Colr Ryan pointed out that the Irish Homebuilders Association had said that as a result of the Act, which requires 15 per cent of a development to be available for affordable houses, the price of the remaining 85 per cent of houses in an estate would go up in price by 25 per cent. That would mean that houses costing £120,000 would go up to £150,000. First time buyers would end up having to pay £30,000 or £40,000 more than they should. Colr Noel Lennon wondered would it not have been better for the Council to buy houses in ones or twos across a private estate rather than in blocks of five. He felt efforts should be made to integrate and harmonise the local authority tenants in a private estate. Mr. Byrne said 11 houses out of an estate of 90 houses was well within the Department’s guidelines. Colr Kevin Meenan agreed with Colr Lennon and said it was unfortunate that the people from Garrybawn had to hear the news on local radio. Colr Ryan complained that the Council had acted without any sympathy for the people of Garrybawn and the hurt they felt. Recalling that the Council had previously purchased houses in Castle Ross off the Castleblayney Rd, he said people there had been told that their houses had dropped in value. He felt young people buying houses in private estates should get a document pledging that the estate would remain private before they bought a house. Colr Pearse O’Hanrahan said that a lot of houses were being bought by private individuals who in turn were renting them out. Those houses were causing a damn sight more problems than Council houses. Chairman Colr Sean Kenna agreed that the Council had better control over its tenants than individuals. Mr. Byrne confirmed all the Council tenants would have tenancy agreements. He told Colr Jim Cousins that probably half the houses in Coxe’s Demense, apart from the OPDs, were now privately owned, while 70 to 75 per cent of the houses in Muirhevenamor would still be rented. 
