housing
{  
    November 21 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/corpo-members-give-go-ahead-for-connaughton-road-scheme-27552803.html }
Sligo Borough Council members voted by nine votes to two at their meeting on Monday night to proceed with the construction of 26 houses at Connaughton Road, Rathquarter. The majority of councillors warmly welcomed the proposed scheme, particularly as there are more than 700 applicants currently on the waiting list for housing in Sligo. However, two councillors, Ald. Declan Bree and Clr. Veronica Cawley, voted against the proposal, both pointing out their commitment to protecting the green areas within the borough. "We know how many people are on the housing list who need to be housed," said Ald. Jimmy McGarry. "There are up on 700 people on our housing list and it's necessary that every opportunity we get that we construct houses for people on our housing list." Ald. McGarry added that he was delighted that Duchas gave its support for this development. He also complimented the group Save Our Green Areas for its submission. "They have their heart in the right place but the amount of ground that the Corporation is using for this site is small," said Ald. McGarry. Ald. Sean Sean MacManus said that with 700 families on the housing list, how could they vote against housing for those people. "If young people come to me looking for housing and I was to turn around and say we have land that we will not develop, I would be falling down in my duty," said Ald. MacManus. He added that he was also delighted that Duchas had supported the development. "It's clear that this proposal will not infringe on portion of the green fort," said Ald. MacManus. "Any councillor who votes against this is falling down in their duty as a public representative. Clr. Arthur Gibbons also pointed the need for housing in view of the number of people on the housing list. Clr. Tony McLoughlin said that every member of the Borough Council around the table would be in support of the development.  'Crisis' "With 700 people on the housing list, we have major concerns in Sligo, it's a crisis at the present time," said Clr. McLoughlin. Clr. Seamus Dolan said he thought it was very important that the proposed 26 houses were provided when there were 700 people on the housing list. "I hope there will be no one around the table opposed to social housing," said Clr. Dolan. He added that there was a playing pitch in the area with no access but this development would give access to it. He said he hoped there would be unanimous agreement on the proposal to go ahead with the scheme. "Would some of the people talking about green areas go out and maintain them?" asked Clr. Dolan, adding, "they wouldn't pick up a paper." "Anyone who votes against this, it will be the biggest U-turn taken by some councillors," said Clr. Dolan. Clr. Veronica Cawley said she would not be voting in favour of the proposal. Clr. Dolan: "My God, social housing and the Labour Party is against it."  Disgrace Clr. Cawley pointed out that when she got elected, she said she would not agree to setting off any green areas for housing and she was going to stick to that. She knew people who had been allocated houses and they could not get in to them. She said the number of hoses in Sligo that were boarded up was also a disgrace. Clr. Matt Lyons said that as the proposer of the motion to proceed with this, he thought it was an excellent development. However, he was disappointed that his colleague in the North Ward could not vote for it. Clr. Rosaleen O'Grady said with 700 people on the housing list, what could anyone do but welcome the housing of another 26 families. Ald. Declan Bree said that when put his name forward as a Labour Party candidate at the local elections, he gave a commitment that he would do all in his power to protect the few remaining green areas in Sligo which were zoned as public open space and for recreation purposes. He made that commitment, he said, because he was very much aware that Sligo was sadly lacking in such amenities. He was also ware that particular developers were interested in having green areas at the Green Fort and Cleveragh/Doorly park area rezoned for development purposes. Ald. Bree said that last year, the County manger recommended that the Borough Council vote to rezone portion of the lands at the Green Fort for housing development and, needless to say, he was very much surprised that he would make such a recommendation. Continuing, he said that despite the fact that there were hundreds of acres of suitable land available for housing in Sligo, the Manager and, sadly to say, the majority of councillors, pressed ahead with the proposal to rezone the land in question at the Green Fort. "The majority of councillors voted to rezone the land in question despite the fact that local community groups had objected to the rezoning and despite the fact that 8,000 people had signed a petition calling n councillors not to rezone," said Ald. Bree. Ald. Bree said he fully supported the submissions made by the Save Our Green Areas Campaign and An Taisce. Deputy Mayor and acting chairman of the meeting Clr. Chris MacManus said there were about 200 houses in Forthill and currently there were more than 50 applicants from that area for social housing. Duchas came out and said the development did not encroach on the fort. "You can not get a job in a green area. You can not get shelter in a green area," said Clr. MacManus. He added: "The people of Sligo will see where the Labour Party's priorities lie in regard to this issue. This is Sligo Corporation land and it's the wishes of Sligo Corporation to use it for social housing. I think it's an excellent scheme and should proceed." Clr. MacManus asked members who were against it to change their mind. "There is no shame in accepting social housing is needed," said Clr. MacManus. The discussion concluded with Borough Council members voting by 9-2 in favour of the housing scheme. Voting for the proposal were Cllr Jimmy McGarry, Sean MacManus, Matt Lyons, Arthur Gibbons, Chris MacManus, Tony McLoughlin, Tommy Cummins, Seamus Dolan and Rosaleen O'Grady. Clr. Cawley and Ald. Bree voted against. 
