housing
{ Brendan O'Connor 
    December 10 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/a-tax-on-our-most-basic-need-a-home-26419542.html }
WE HEAR a lot of talk these days about how large corporations are out-of-control, psychopathic entities, grown fat on greed, arrogance and unaccountability. The funny thing is, when you think of that description in this country, you think not of Microsoft or Shell or Coca Cola, but of our Government - a large overweight behemoth, an ever-growing bureaucracy hoovering up everyt WE HEAR a lot of talk these days about how large corporations are out-of-control, psychopathic entities, grown fat on greed, arrogance and unaccountability. The funny thing is, when you think of that description in this country, you think not of Microsoft or Shell or Coca Cola, but of our Government - a large overweight behemoth, an ever-growing bureaucracy hoovering up everything in its way, grown fat on excess funds from our pockets, and the dizzying sense of invincibility brought about by the lack of any real alternative government, and the seeming unassailable popularity of its leader, no matter what he does. The arrogance is stunning. They waddle around throwing about largesse as if it's their money to give away, when the truth is that they've been systematically fleecing the workers of this country for several years now for that money. And when the people speak, as they did in opinion polls, and say that they would like stamp duty sorted out, they condescendingly explain to us that we really don't want stamp duty reformed, that we think we do, but we don't really know what's good for us. Mammy and Daddy know best. "Stamp duty reform? they say. Oh no, you silly children, that would just mean more money in the developers' pockets. Leave it to us adults to do the thinking." Rather we would give the money into the Government's fat pockets instead. . They talk slowly to us because of course we wouldn't understand economics. Of course, the central economics of all this, is that the Government now collects as much stamp duty as they do corporation tax. Corporation tax is currently rising at a rate of about 7.5 per cent a year. Stamp duty is currently rising by 40 per cent a year. You don't need to be an economist to figure out that this means that at current growth rates, stamp duty will double in two years, and in three years, stamp duty will be worth double what corporation tax is worth to the fat cats in Government. It's extraordinary stuff, a real windfall for the Government. No wonder they're reluctant to give it up. Neither do you need to be an economist to know that the rates of stamp duty in this country are criminal. We shouldn't need to spell this out but let's go over it one more time for the slow learners in the Government. The average price of a house in Dublin is now ?423,000. This average house would attract the second highest rate of stamp duty, the second highest of the six rates. So on the average house in Dublin, an average person would pay 32 grand stamp duty, a one-off payment to the Government for which they get nothing in return; a lump sum, which they cannot include in their mortgage, and which that person has to stump up on top of having 10 per cent of the purchase price saved, as well as legal fees. So, in order to be able to buy an average house in Dublin, you need to have saved about 80 grand, after tax. A first time buyer fares little better. This average house in Dublin will still attract the second highest rate on the first time buyers scale, which is six per cent. So the Government essentially demands a one-off cash payment of 25 grand from any first time buyer wishing to buy an average house in Dublin. No doubt about it, it's extortion, and it's unavoidable, and it's a tax on that most basic thing - a home. Their reasoning is thus - if stamp duty is reduced, developers will just slap on the equivalent amount to the house price. This would very much upset the Government. Despite being the biggest beneficiaries of the property boom, despite being on course to take in ?4 billion on stamp duty next year - roughly the amount they threw around in the budget - the Government finds increases in the value of houses deeply upsetting. And they will do anything to prevent increases. It has now become one of those sacred cows that property prices must not go up, at whatever cost. But would it be all that bad if even some of the decrease in stamp duty was priced into houses? For starters, it would mean that the average first time buyer in Dublin would not have to find the 25 grand one-off cash payment for the Government in their savings. Because it would be part of the house price, they could just borrow it as part of their mortgage. Furthermore, neither would the 25 grand just go straight down the drain as stamp duty. If the 25 grand were priced into the value of the house, then at least the first time buyer would retain the 25 grand as part of the value of his house. And instead of having to come up with over 70 grand to try to buy the average house in Dublin, a first time buyer would need less than 50, assuming a 10 per cent deposit. And by the way, in case you're thinking that the 'average' Dublin house for 432K must be a lot more than average for that kind of money, be under no illusions. I've been out looking at properties in this bracket with a friend for the last few weeks. Anywhere in the accessible suburbs of Dublin in this price bracket is not big, is not in a particularly good area, and it probably needs work done. So for a basic enough 800 sq ft council house with two or three small bedrooms in a very ordinary area on the outskirts of Dublin city, first time buyers pay a punitive tax rate. The Government'snotion that if stamp duty were reformed, there could be more house price inflationis flawed on several other levels too. Any economist or finance person will tell you that right now, with the increase in the supply of houses in this country, and the constantly rising interest rates, that decreasing or abolishing stamp duty probably wouldn't have a huge inflationary effect on house prices. Also, if the Government is so damn concerned about house price increases, how come they haven't done anything about it up to now? Suddenly we badly need stamp duty to keep house prices down? And what? This is their best mechanism for keeping house prices down? Haven't we had stamp duty for the last 10 years? Stamp duty clearly hasn't regulated the market at all for the past decade. So trying to sell this extortion to us as some kind of necessity to regulate the market is rubbish. Not to state the obvious , but the only cause and effect between stamp duty and house prices is that as house prices have gone through the roof, so has stamp duty, and the Government has profitted hugely. And now, like a pimp or a drug dealer who has become addicted to the lifestyle, they can't give up these ill-gotten gains even if they wanted to. So they'll produce every excuse they can except the truth, which is that this Government is now so bloated, that it needs the extra ?4 billion next year. Remember that stamp duty was never intended to be a big earner. It was always at best a niche tax, an absurd duty that was never intended to be a money-spinner. Even in 1998, near the beginning of the property boom, stamp duty used to represent 3 per cent of the tax take. Now nearly one in every ?10 that the Government screws out of us is stamp duty. And they provide absolutely nothing in return for this tax. Would you give it up? If you had this quasi protection racket, that involved taking huge lump sums of cash from everyone who wanted to buy a house or move house - would you give it up without a fight? And in the meantime, this Government, the greatest beneficiary of the property boom, without once taking a risk or a punt or speculating, continues to be the greatest beneficiary and it does this by taking 25 grand off any young person wanting to buy an average house in Dublin. It does this by penalising anyone who might want to move house for the sake of a new job. It does it by penalising anyone who might want to move from their first home into a second one because they've had a child. It does it by penalising older people who might be thinking of trading down to let a large family take over their big house. It does it by sitting on the mobility of property by meddling with, and preventing the proper working order of the market in homes inIreland. It was the single thing that people most wanted done in this budget, and in their arrogance, the Government swatted the public aside likes flies, told us that we didn't really want it, that we were just too stupid to understand. And they did so at their peril. The most dangerous way to go into anything is as hot favourite. And stamp duty is going to come back again and again to bite this Government on their fat behind in the run up to the next election. 
