housing
{ Eunan  King 
    March 12 2008 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/roof-wont-cave-in-over-housing-slump-26429586.html }
The gloom about the outlook for the Irish economy generated by the downturn in the housing market is misplaced. The argument goes that the consequences for the overall economy will be significant and result in a housing market crash, effectively ending the so-called Celtic Tiger. However, the boom in Ireland was based on a sharp rise in the population of working age from the mid-1990s, not on developments in the housing market. This demographic influence increased demand for a whole range of goods and services, among them accommodation. House builders struggled to keep pace with demand and house prices inflated. Housing output lagged behind rather than led the boom. What has eventually happened is that supply has caught up with demand and, though this is causing house price reductions, the conditions for a spiral down and a recession in the economy are not present. House building was not the engine of the boom and should not be the cause of a bust. The demographic factors underlying the strength of the economy are likely to remain favourable for the next five to 10 years. House building currently accounts for about 10pc of GDP and has contributed about 1pc per annum to the 8pc annual growth rate recorded since 1997. In 2006 the contribution from housing was 0.5pc, GDP grew by 5.7pc and in 2007 it is estimated the contribution from housing was minus 1pc. The economy nevertheless grew by about 5.6pc in 2007. House builders shed an estimated 20,000 jobs in the course of 2007. Yet employment in overall construction in the fourth quarter of the year (Q4) was down only 9,000 from Q1. There was a large increase in the numbers of self-employed in the building trade, which would be consistent with reports that spending on repair, maintenance and improvement of housing is strong. Memories of the UK housing crash in the early 1990s are still fresh in the minds of many and may be influencing thinking about the Irish economy. The significant differences between the 1990s UK experience and Ireland currently are that UK interest rates were then well into double digits, taxes on property, in the form of the Council tax, were raised and mortgage interest relief was restricted to one per property. These macro policies curbed overall demand in the economy and led to rising unemployment. There was a direct knock-on effect on the housing sector. Currently in Ireland, interest rates have peaked at 4pc, a low rate for an economy which has the potential to grow at 5pc or more per annum in the next few years. Interest rates may well be cut later in the year as the euro appreciates. Taxes are stable and the Government is still running a large current budget surplus. Employment and incomes are still rising. Those who argue that a 10pc fall in housing output will cut GDP growth by about 1pc are taking a purely arithmetic approach. Against a backdrop of rising employment and incomes, households which decide not to move house are unlikely to save all of the money they would otherwise have spent on the house move. They may upgrade their existing house, change the car or spend in a range in a range of other ways. The key is the continued growth in employment and disposable income. These were absent in the UK crisis. (Retail sales in December 2007 were 4.7pc in volume above December 2006. There is little sign in these data of a significant slowing of demand.) It is argued that the worst effects on the economy of the housing slowdown are yet to be seen. This is hard to accept because the supply of housing appeared to have begun to catch up with demand in the autumn of 2006, now some considerable time ago. House building is heavily structured on sub-contracting and it is difficult to believe that there would be significant lags between the slowing of output growth and reductions in employment in an industry thus organised. Demand appears to be strong for new houses priced 10pc-15pc below last year's levels. Another argument put forward in support of the poor outlook for the Irish economy is that there is significant exposure to slowing growth in the US and the UK. However, this should not have a material impact on Ireland. This is because the internationally owned companies in Ireland employ fewer than 100,000 people out of a total of 2.1m in the economy. While these companies dominate export growth, they are also very large importers of material inputs. Thus their contribution to the economy is, for the most part, limited to the numbers they employ directly and the taxes paid. In summary, the housing market does not appear likely to crash. Underlying demand for accommodation remains strong, based on demographic influences, but house prices are adjusting downwards to reflect a balance between demand and supply not seen since the upsurge in the economy, which began in the mid-1990s. Interest rate and tax levels do not pose a threat to disposable income. Employment is growing and that is the key indicator of the health of the housing market and the economy. Eunan King is chief economist at NCB Stockbrokers 
