housing
{  
    March 04 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/claimed-people-are-threatening-to-leave-council-houses-due-to-condition-they-are-in-26899427.html }
Cllr Geraldine Cassidy said that some houses were in such bad condition that people were being forced to leave and go into private rented accommodation.Council chairman, Cllr Kevin Meenan called for urgent action to be taken to make inloads on the number of vacant Council houses waiting to be repaired before they can be re-let to new tenants.Noting that there were 37 vacant Cllr Geraldine Cassidy said that some houses were in such bad condition that people were being forced to leave and go into private rented accommodation. Council chairman, Cllr Kevin Meenan called for urgent action to be taken to make inloads on the number of vacant Council houses waiting to be repaired before they can be re-let to new tenants. Noting that there were 37 vacant houses waiting to be re-let he said it seemed that the figure never seems to go down. These weren’t just vacant houses, but boarded up houses which were a blot on the landscapes and having a negative affect on communities. He believed that the Council was losing out on a significant amount of revenue through not being able to get rent from these houses. They had increased pay parking to bring in an additional ?230,000 in the coming year, yet they had probably lost that much from lack of rent from vacant houses last year. “It affects not just the housing estates but the whole town,” he argued. Cllr Seamus Keelan supported him, saying that the councillors had provided a specific sum in the ‘05 estimates for re-lets yet the pace seemed to be very slow. He raised the problem of contractors agreeing to do repairs to Council houses and then changing their minds. He wanted an assurance that all the money they had set aside for repairs to vacant houses would be spent. Cllr Martin Bellew said that vacant houses contributed to anti-social behaviour and were an annoyance to neighbours. He couldn’t understand how some houses are lying vacant for 18 months to two years without being repaired yet some houses are repaired after four or five weeks. Cllr Seamus Byrne said he shared in the disappointment regarding the situation of vacant houses as the number of houses awaiting repairs had just gone down one in the past month. He suggested the Council get a list of builders with tax and insurance in place to call on if a contractor drops out and those who did drop out should be blacklisted. Cllr Mary Grehan felt that one solution would be to move people up the housing list if they were prepared to do minor repairs to houses themselves. Town Engineer, Ms Catherine Duff said that 80 re-lets had been returned to the housing stock last year which was actually a record number. They had also received a record number of re-lets so there was a rollover from 2004 to 2005. Provision had been made by councillors in the estimates for funding to tackle the problem of long-term voids and an engineer had been transferred from the roads section to the housing section to tackle the overload of work. She said that houses which only had a few or minor repairs to be carried out would be repaired as soon as they became vacant but that those which were on the list for over six months required substantial work to be carried out. These were the ones they were now concentrating on and contract documents were being prepared at the moment. However, the Council had a problem getting contractors to do small jobs because of the booming economy. There was also “a list the length of your arm” of requirements which builders had to comply with in order to carry out works for local authorities. Insurance was the issue which caused most problems, she added. There was nothing the Council could do if a contractor changed his mind and decided not to do a job. They could just go to the next person on the list but that would involve the whole process of checking insurance, tax, etc. While the Department had provided funding for houses which had been vacant for a long time, the Council could only recruit money for repairs over ?10,000. She assured councillors that all money set aside in the budget for repairs to re-lets would be spent this year. Town Clerk, Frank Pentony said the Council had already received 8 houses for re-letting this year. He told councillors that there were numerous reasons why tenants leave local authority houses. Tenents might be transferred, they might get up and leave, they might decide they couldn’t hack it on a local authority estate, or they might die. 
