housing
{ By JAMES YOUNG 
    August 28 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/expensive-theory-of-social-housing-26112570.html }
THE Supreme Court yesterday ruled that the Government can effectively  confiscate up to 20pc of development land for housing from private home builders, as proposed by  the Minister of the Environment, Noel Dempsey. So the most controversial part of the Planing and  Development bill should now become law in a few weeks time. What does this ruling mean for the home building industry? It means that sometime later this year, developers who seek planning permission for new houses will be forced to sell up to 20pc of their land to the local authority at agricultural use value. At present that is usually less than 10pc of the market value as development land for houses. That means that the developer must bear over 90pc of the cost of this confiscated land. The developer will then pass these increased costs to the eventual buyer of the remaining houses. The local authority will then use the land for building `social and affordable' housing. In other words, the Government will buy the land from the home builder on the cheap and force the costs to be eaten by the other 80pc of the home owners buying in the development. The big problem is that the market cannot absorb a 20pc to 25pc increase in the price of private new houses. Even if people were willing to pay 20pc more for a house next door to a local authority purchaser whom they have subsidised, the increased cost of the housing will not make it possible for them to purchase. So several undesirable results will occur for the first time home buyer. First, prices will go up to a level where people cannot afford to purchase private housing. Sure, prices have gone up over the past few years, but the ability of people to pay their mortgages has not diminished greatly because of low interest rates and rising pay levels. This new 20pc to 25pc increase will not be based upon interest rates or economic fundamentals, it will be based upon Government policy and will stretch the limits of affordability more than ever. This first result is the beginning of a vicious circle that is now opened by the judgment yesterday. Say that people cannot afford to buy houses privately over the next two years because of the increased costs imposed by this bill. In turn, these people apply to purchase an `affordable' housing unit from the local authority. This leads to more demand for `affordable' housing and more pressure being placed on the Government to take more land than the 20pc limit proposed. Where does it end? The judgment yesterday will allow for the Government to take as much land as they like if it is in the public interest. Is this the purpose of the legislation? It is certainly a likely outcome of it. But say people cannot afford to pay another 20pc for their house. That means that home builders cannot afford to raise their prices, but will have to take 20pc less in profit. This leads to the second undesirable result. Many builders will simply batten down the hatches and wait for prices to go up to a point that their past profit levels are maintained. Who can blame them? Why should they take 20pc less in profit just because a Government minister tells them they have to? Would employees in any industry not go on strike if their employer just walked in one day and said, ``your pay has been cut by 20pc as of today?'' You bet they would strike. If developers simply hold on to their land, they can let the current demand take prices to a new level before they start building again, that is as good as a strike. We saw similar behaviour when tax changes on expenses for residential investments were introduced in Bacon one. Investors left the market until such time that rents went up to take into account the loss of the tax incentives and allowable expenses. In short, rents skyrocketed. A reduction in the supply of new housing is the last thing the Government wants, but that is what they will get until prices can reach a point that it is economically viable for developers to build again. Now this may not be the politically correct question to ask, but do you want the Government to determine who your neighbours are going to be and pay for the privilege? Furthermore, do you want to subsidise the purchase of your neighbour's house, especially considering that you are likely to see that person regularly? The answer to these questions is a probably no. If this were desirable for home purchasers, you would see estate agents using the proximity of local authority housing as a selling point for a new housing development. But that does not happen. One also needs to ask why `affordable' housing, whatever that is, has become such an issue. In the private rented sector, the Government is to blame for rapidly rising rents over the past couple of years by changing the way expenses, such as mortgage interest and maintenance, can be deducted for tax purposes. With rising house prices and subsequently increased deposit amounts required, the ability of people in the rental market to save money for a deposit in purchasing a home has been reduced by misguided Government policy. That constitutes the real affordability problem for first time home buyers, the ability of people to save enough money for a deposit on a house. But it is much easier to sell the emotional argument of `greedy' developers, `greedy' estate agents, and `greedy' landowners. Forget the fact that the Government takes substantially more money from home buyers in VAT and levies on every new house sold than developers and the estate agents combined. The Government is the `greedy' party in all of this. The Government sold vast tracts of land that could have been used for `social and affordable' housing during the 1980s through to the mid-1990s. NOW they want new home owners to pay for that mistake. And you can rest assured that the Government did not sell their land at `existing use value' back then. The Supreme Court decision is monumental for the provision of housing in this country. The knock on effects of this decision outside the building industry could spell the end for many wage agreements as prices increase further. Supply of new houses could go down substantially until prices increase as builders play a game of wait and see. Furthermore, this intervention is based upon the experience in the UK, which many reports are now saying was a complete failure in providing more social and affordable housing. In short, yesterday's decision will lead to higher house prices. * JAMES YOUNG is an economist specialising in the European property market 
