housing
{ MARGARET RODDY 
    February 01 2013 01:09 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/governments-housing-policy-causing-concern-29027167.html }
AS THE number of people looking for social housing from local authorities in Louth exceeded 5,500, councillors have expressed concern how government policy is impacting on their ability to provide houses for those on the list. Councils can no longer build or buy houses for social housing but must least them from the private sector. 'What are we doing to house these people?' Cllr Frank Godfrey asked at the monthly meeting of Louth County Council, saying that people feel aggrieved about the situation, and that the issue of people coming into the country and being provided with accommodation while people from Louth have to stay with families or rent substandard accommodation was one which was raised by the public. 'Building houses would create employment and get construction going again,' he said, declaring that the Minister's policy regarding the leasing of houses had failed. Cllr Declan Breathnach contented that there were enough good vacant properties throughout the county which should be made available to local authorities for social housing. Worthwhile employment could be given to skilled tradesmen to bring these houses up to standard ' The development of 70 houses at Seafield Road, Blackrock will go down in history as one of the last housing developments built by the local authority,' he said, referring to the fact that councils can now only lease property from the private sector. Cllr Tomas Sharkey called for a new system of registration for housing applicants which would give an indication as to when they first applied and on what grounds they needed housing. Such a system, he argued, would make it clearer on what basis people were allocated houses. His suggestion was backed by other councillors, with Cllr Edel Corrigan saying they needed to take a more proactive approach to show local people were not being discriminated against. She argued that councillors needed to take a stance on this. Director of Service Mr Joe McGuinness told Cllr Peter Savage that council is leasing an average of 30 houses a year,prompting the north Louth councillor to say that people would need to put their grandchildren's name on the list to ensure that they get a house. ' The present system has no hope of addressing the housing list,' he said, asking what would happen when the leases expire in ten years time and tenants must be re-housed again. Cllr Martin Bellew agreed saying that in 10 or 15 years time they will end up with hundreds of people with no houses when the leases expire. They would be better off buying or building houses. Mr McGuinness explained that all houses are let according to the scheme of priorities adopted by the councillors. The length of time that a person would be waiting to be housed depends on the area and could range from six months to seven years, with the average waiting time around three and a half years. There was, he continued, a 29% refusal rate by applicants which led him to believe that there wasn't a crisis and that people are quite happy to be in receipt of rental supplement and to be in the private market. The numbers on the housing list didn't represent the real figure of those in need of social housing, he contended, and the rental supplement distorts the list. He assured councillors that everyone on the housing list will be written to when the council carries out a review of the housing list in the coming months. 'No one will be taken off it without being notified and written to. 
