housing
{  
    May 04 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/localnotes/planning-in-fingal-27784198.html }
PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 21/04/00  PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 21/04/00 Sarah Jones, Melbourne House, Lower Main Street, Rush, Co. Dublin, for one dormer bungalow at Bawn Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. R & C Dwyer, Skephubble, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for attic conversion to storage to single storey creche ancillary extension to existing house at Skephubble, St. Margarets, Co.Dublin. Keelco Ltd., Unit 12 Donabate Town Centre, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for retention of the first floor office units no. 12, 13, 14 and 15 at Donabate Shopping Centre, Ballalease West, Portrane Road, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Bernadette McNally, Tooman, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission for two storey dwelling, stables, garage, barn and yard. Biocycle septic system and irrigation area with new road entrance at Tooman, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Sean and Kay Brett, 16 St. Colmcilles Drive, Swords, Co. Dublin, to erect two storey dwelling house with biocycle waste water treatment system also domestic garage and new entrance at Ballymadrough, Donabate, Co. Dublin. G. & U. Cullen, 10 Churchfield Close, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for proposed alterations/extension and biocycle waste treatment unit to dwelling at Parnellstown, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin. Hugh Cahill, The Whitehouse, Holmpatrick, Skerries, Co. Dublin, to retain orientation of bungalow as built at The Whitehouse, Holmpatrick, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Pat and Una Redmond, 45 Quay Street, Skerries, Co.Dublin, to demolish existing derelict cottage and extentions replace with a new dwelling comprising of a single storey cottage along street with a two storey section to the back at 25 Quay Street, Skerries, Co.Dublin. Mr. P. Kelly, 52 Balkil Park, Howth, Co. Dublin, for 3 bedroom semi-detached house to the side at 52 Balkill Park, Howth, Co. Dublin. Ben Developments Ltd., Unit 5 Kinsealy Business Park, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin, for construction of 2 no. two storey detached houses at Beaverbrook, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Mrs. W. Hartford, "Limenos", Thomas Hand Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing house with ground floor and attic accommodation and construct new house with single storey to street and 2 storey to rear no. 3 New Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Mr. Brendan Donnelly, 1 Feltrim Road, Streamstown, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for part brick faced, traditional styled, 2 storied, dormered dwelling at Feltrim Road, Streamstown, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. Timmy Fitzgerald, 5 Chapel Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin, for relocation of previously approved bungalow and biocycle unit at Broughan, The Ward, Co. Dublin. Mr. Christopher O'Connor, 46 St. Peter's Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin, to provide access to the rear garden, through 2 new double gates and to construct a new paved area with access ramp to existing laneway to provide for off-street vehicular parking at 46 St. Peter's Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin. Mr. Steven Martin, Heathstown Cross, Stamullen, Co. Meath, for single storey extension at rear and installation of biocycle waste water treatment system and new render finish to existing house at Adamstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Veronica O'Keane and Ivar Warrer-Hansen, 2 Asgard Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for two storey part split level dwelling with associated garage, and subdivision of existing plot with shared existing access from road at 2 Asgard Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Management Comm. Ballcarrig Golf Club, Balcarrig Golf Club, Corballis, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for system built pro shop building at Balcarrig Golf Club at Balcarrig Golf Club, Corballis, Donabate, Co. Dublin. P. Reddin, 12 Balbriggan St., Skerries, Co. Dublin, for change of use of existing garage workshop to dog parlour at 12 Balbriggan St., (rear yard), Skerries, Co. Dublin. Moloney Builders & Developers Ltd., 30 Dale Course Road, Tralee, Co. Kerry, to extend new road and add seven detached two storey houses to current development plan ref. F99A/0527 at Northcliff Heights, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Kieran McGrath, Newtown, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for new bungalow biocycle unit and percolation area, new site and associated ground works at New Town, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Marie McGlone,Troodos, Jordanstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for two storey house with biocycle unit at Moonlawn Lane, Naul, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. David Butterly, Sandyridge, Skerries Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for single storey house and biodisc foul effluent system. at Rogerstown Lane, Lusk, Co. Dublin. P. Lillis, Corrstown, Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin, for demolition of an existing house, the retention of a replacement home, and the retention of a private effluent treatment system and sundry works at Corrstown, Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin. M. McKenna, 11 Balbriggan Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for two storey house to the rear at 11 Balbriggan Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin. J. Leonard, Millbank, Old Bank, Rush, Co. Dublin, to demolish farm sheds and build new dwellings at Mill Bank, Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. R. Collins, Lispopple Cross, Swords, Co. Dublin, to construct (1) dormer double garage with domestic storage on first floor (2) construct 2nd vehicle entrance to existing dormer bungalow at Cobbe's Hill, Lispopple Cross, Swords, Co. Dublin. Malahide Marina Village, Killorglin House, 41-43 Shelbourne Road, Dublin 4, for 5 one and two bedroom apartments in a 4 storey apartment building, relocation of communal bin store, security office and biocycle park on site adjacent to Block 6 Malahide Marina Village at Malahide Marina Village, site adjacent to Block 6 Malahide Marina Village, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Ms. C. Rooney, The Grange, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for three bungalows with biocycle units at The Grange, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin. Brendan Ward, 3 Cannon Cottages, Upper Cliff Road, Howth, Dublin 13, for bungalow to rear of 3 Cannon Rock Cottages at site at rear of 3 Cannon Rock Cottages, Upper Cliff Road, Howth, Dublin 13. T. Doyle, 50B Haystown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for dormer dwelling at Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Ita McPhail, Hand Park, Rush, Co. Dublin, foir bungalow off Convent Lane, Rush, Co. Dublin. Robert Costello, Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for revision to approved dormer dwelling - reference no. F00A/0080 for Crescent Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Mr. Declan Clarke, The Burrow Road, Portrane, Co. Dublin, for removal of existing temporary dwelling and new dormer bungalow at Healy's Lane, Portrane, Co. Dublin. A. Keane, Lughnasa, Texas Lane, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey house to side and new porch to existing house at Lughnasa, Texas Lane, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. Dennis Joseph Heery, Baldwinstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin, to construct a bay window extension to existing dwelling at Baldwinstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Mr. John Brady, 39 Stapolin Lawns, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for domestic alterations and extensions. To include extension of kitchen into rear part of existing garage, first floor extension over existing garage and installation of "Velux" rooflights at 39 Stapolin Lawns, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. Mr. & Mrs. P. McHale, no. 1 Binn Eadair View, Sutton, Dublin 13, for demolition of single storey flat roof side and rere extensions, garage, boilerhouse and part existing dwelling house to facilitate extension of existing detached dormer dwelling house at ground and first floor levels to front and rere to include bedrooms, bathrooms, kitchen, utility, boiler-room, living spaces, stairwell and from new entrance gate and drive to front at 156 Howth Road, Sutton, Dublin 13. M. Leahy, 9 Shielmartin Park, Redrock, Sutton, Dublin 13, for single storey domestic extension to side at 9 Shielmartin Park, Redrock, Sutton, Dublin 13. Mr. & Mrs. P. Goodman, 7 The Back Road, Mabestown, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for conversion of part of garage to living space and additional first floor extension over and to rear of garage and a single storey extension to side and rear of house to supply additional residential accommodation at 7 The Back Road, Mabestown, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mrs. M. O'Mahony,, 1 Grace O Malley Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for porch to front, two storey extension to rear including alterations at 1 Grace O'Malley Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. B. Delaney, 63 Kenure Park, Rush, Co. Dublin, for construction of 2 bay windows and change of external finish to existing dwelling at 63 Kenure Park, Rush, Co. Dublin. D. D'Orey, 23 Selskar Rise, Skerries, Co.Dublin, for proposed sunroom extension at 23 Selskar Rise, Skerries, Co. Dublin. E. Blaney, Sutton House, Shielmartin Road, Sutton, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to include one bedroom granny flat extension and two bedroom extension to main house at 71 Offington Park, Sutton, Dublin 13. Mr. P. Richmond, 20A Chapel Close, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension at side comprising of garage and living accommodation at 20A Chapel Close, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Simon Curthoys, 11 Parnell Cottages, Malahide, Co. Dublin, to demolish and rebuild existing side and rear extension and to construct new pitched roof to front porch at 11 Parnell Cottages, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. John Ryan, c/o Sands Hotel, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for extensions, alterations, new roof, porch, bay windows and car port with ancillary site works for private residential use.at Dalriada, Coast Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Mr. Paul Fogarty, 56 Sea View Park, Portrane, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey extension to existing dwelling at 56 Sea View Park, Portrane, Co. Dublin. M. Burke, 6 Brookdale Close, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension to side at 6 Brookdale Close, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin. Padraic O'Brien, 6 Hand Park, Rush, Co. Dublin, for porch extension to front of house at 6 Hand Park, Rush, Co. Dublin. Fingal Swimming Pool Association, c/o 10 Town Parks, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for swimming pool facility with a 25m pool, learner pool, spectator area, changing rooms, plant rooms, meeting rooms and ancillary room; carparking (100 spaces), and access road at the Ballast Pit, off Dublin Road, Skerries at Ballast Pit Sports Grounds, off Dublin Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin. South Dublin Construction Ltd, 17 Adelaide Road, Dublin 2, for residential development of 100 units comprising Block A, 10 no. 2 bed apartments and 2 no. 1 bed apartments in one 3 storey block; Block B, 6 no. 2 bed apartments and 10 no. 1 bed apartments in one 3 storey block; Block C, 6 no. 2 bed apartments and 10 no. 1 bed apartments in one 3 storey block; Block D, 14 no. 2 bed apartments and 8 no. 1 bed apartments in one 3 storey block; Block E, 4 no. 2 storey, 3 bed back to back; Block F, 6 no. 2 bed apartments and 4 no. 3 bed apartments in one 2 storey block; Block G, 6 no. 2 bed apartments and 4 no. 3 bed apartments in one 2 storey block; Block H, 6 no. 2 bed apartments and 4 no. 3 bed apartments in one 2 storey block and associated site works, including underground car parking at New Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Mr. J. Ryan, 33 Seatown Villas, Swords, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension to rear of existing private residence to include minor alterations to elevated treatment of front facade incorporating new entrance porch at 33 Seatown Villas, Swords, Co. Dublin.  AMENDMENT TO WEEKLY LIST (WEEK NO. 15 - 10/04/2000 - 14/04/2000) F99A/0315 12/04/2000 Permission (should not have read Additional Information) Rolestown Inn, Lispopple, Swords, Co. Dublin, to to erect an extension to the lounge area of the existing licensed premises, new entrance porches and revised front elevation, new toilet areas, kitchen, entrance lobby to the first floor additional cold room, refurbishment of existing bars/small lounge, and extension into the existing residential area, the construction of a function room building, lobby, toilets and entrance porch on the ground floor, and a lounge area, small function room, restaurant, kitchen areas, fourteen bedrooms with en-suite bathrooms, residents lounge, administration office and store over function room on the 1st floor, revised and extended car parking layout, new stone front boundary wall and entrance, signage, site landscaping and the installation of an approved sewage treatment plant at Rolestown Inn, Lispopple, Swords, Co. Dublin.  LIST OF DECISIONS MADE FROM 17/04/2000 TO 21/04/2000 Decisions to GRANT PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Barry English, 31 Ridgewood, Swords, Co. Dublin, to construct a garage and carryout associated site works on site at 14 Auburn, Malahide, Co. Dublin. David Daly, The Gables, Torquay Road, Foxrock, Dublin 18, for retention of 2 no. ESB sub-stations and 2 no. water booster set plant rooms at 2 no. office blocks [Reg. Ref.F99A/0772] at Airside Business Park, Crowscastle, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mrs. Orla Lynch, 54 Furry Park Rd., Clontarf, Dublin 3, for change of use from workshop to office accommodation at unit 5, North Street Business Park, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. P.J. Dempsey, 1 The Crescent, Melrose Park, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin, for 3 bed, 2 storey end of terrace dwelling complete with new vehicular access and ancillary services to side at 1 The Crescent, Melrose Park, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. Rohan Holdings Ltd., 5 Mount Street Crescent, Dublin 2, for three storey science and technology/office building previous planning permissions granted Reg. Reg.86A/1328, F93A/0010, F95A/0094 at Furry Park Industrial Estate, Santry, Dublin 9. Woodside Homes, 1 Hillside Park, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin, for revision of 20 detached houses (already permitted under reg. ref. F99A/0973) at Ballalease North, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Lorna Fitzsimmons, Briarsfield, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for change of house type from the approved plan, plan ref. F99A/0841 at Bellinstown, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin. Madden & Moffitt, 2 Oolart, Forest Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for revision to previously approved permission F97A/0136 for a change of front elevation to housing sites 135 to 152 inclusive at Gainsborough Development, Yellow Walls Townland, Malahide, Co. Dublin with access from Swords Road. Airscape Ltd., 18/19 Harcourt Street, Dublin 2, for additional internal office space, additional bay to vehicle testing area plus changes to first floor elevation of existing vehicle testing centre at Northpoint Business Park, Northern Cross, Dublin 11, for . D. Behan, 8 Forest Court, River Valley, Swords, Co. Dublin, for first floor extension to rear together with alterations to existing dwelling at 8 Forest Court, River Valley, Swords, Co. Dublin. Joseph Cerasi, 53 St. Fintans Crescent, Sutton, Dublin 13, to to retain closing in of front porch, convert garage to lounge, rear single storey extension and patio door to rear elevation at 53 St. Fintans Crescent, Sutton, Dublin 13. Marian Farrell, Willow Wood, Swords Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for new roof, dormers, front porch, bay window, first floor extension to rear over existing conservatory, new windows throughout house and alterations to existing boundary wall and piers at Willow Wood, Swords Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. L. M. Bacon, 32 Moyclare Avenue, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin, for single storey tiled roof extension to side at 32 Moyclare Avenue, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. Bernard & Terese McMahon, "Aughadreen", Kinstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for conversion of existing attic to living space incorporating additional "velux" rooflights, the building of porch to front with family room to side at "Aughadreen", Kingstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Kathleen McDonell, Outlands, Rathbeale Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to side and rear at The Cottage, Outlands, Rathbeale Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Pat O'Hara, Carthys Lane, Whitestown Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for front porch and extension to rear of existing house including alterations to previously approved ref. reg. F96B/0113 at Carthy's Lane, Whitestown Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Patrick Hickey, Inch, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for conversion of attic space into habitable dormer rooms at Inch, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. N. & J. Keogh, 22 Baskin Cottages, Cloghran, Co. Dublin, for single storey dormer style pitched and flat roof, extension to rear at 22 Baskin Cottages, Cloghran, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. J. Sedgwick, Tjuringa, Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for rear ground floor bedroom extension at Tjuringa, Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Liam & Anne O'Callaghan, 95 Downside, Skerries, Co. Dublin, to build an extension to the rear and side at 95 Downside, Skerries, Co. Dublin. G. & P. Coscoran, 6 Flemington Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for construction of 2 storey pitched roof extension at 6 Flemington Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Michael and Noreen Branaghan, 14 Blackberry Rise, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for extension to porch and livingroom at 14 Blackberry Rise, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Fred & Colette Moran, 43 Blackthorn Close, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for garage conversion and retention of porch at 43 Blackthorn Close, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Sutton Dingy Club, Strand Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, to to extend its boat parking, boat launching/hauling up areas and clubhouse. An Environmental Impact Statement accompanies this application at Strand Road, Sutton, Dublin 13 Francis Preston, 1 Moyclare Park, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for 2 storey dwelling to the side. Create new entrance and demolition of existing extension at 1 Moyclare Park, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. V. Shannon Solicitors, 29 Main Street, Swords, Co. Dublin, to erect a second storey at 29 Main Street, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. P. Moore, Richardstown, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to house comprising of a playschool, additional residential accommodation and additional car parking facilities at Richardstown, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin. C. O'Neill & S. Dungan, Dermottstown, Naul, Co. Dublin, for proposed bungalow, garage, entrance to road and biocycle unit at Dermottstown, Naul, Co. Dublin. Sec. on behalf of Trust. Rush Golf Club, Rush, Co. Dublin, for new course maintenance building at Rush Golf Club, Rush, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Swords Laboratories Ltd., Watery Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin, to erect and construct a building (floor area 50 sq.m.) to house plant associated with on-site Nitrogen Generator and adjacent tank storage area (68 sq.m.) at Watery Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin. Terry & Jackie Moore, 5 Longlands, Swords, Co. Dublin, for proposed refurbishment work, extension to side and rear of existing dwelling, proposed septic tank and percolation area at Newhaggard, Lusk, Co. Dublin.  Requests for ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications: Messrs. Paul Grimes and Kevin Brannigan, Grimes Estate Agents, Main St., Ashbourne, Co. Meath, to to demolish an existing derelict stone building and to erect 8 dwellings together with all associated site works, drainage and requisite parking for the proposed development at land to rear of nos. 30, 31 and 32 Balbriggan Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Arthur Ring and Sons Ltd., Unit 48, Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13, for retention of new and relocated offices and canteen area within the existing building including minor elevational changes at Unit 48, Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13. Ms. Lorraine Lowndes, 31 St. Columba's Rise, Swords, Co. Dublin, to to erect a 3 bedroom house at rear at rear no. 31, St. Columba's Rise, Swords, Co. Dublin. Arthur Ring & Co. Ltd., Unit 48, Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13, for additional workshop space in a single storey lean-to structure to the rear and side of their premises including the relocation of vehicular entrances and car parking spaces and the provision of additional spaces at Unit 48 Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13. T. McGuirk and J. Delaney, c/o 2 Wynberg Park, Blackrock, Co. Dublin, to erect 3 bungalows at site adjacent to 199 Broadmeadows at 199 Broadmeadows, Swords, Co. Dublin. L. Jones, 10 The Close, Orlynn Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for detached two storey dormer bungalow to the rear with access from Brookside Gardens at Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to REFUSE OUTLINE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: M. Hackett, Shercock Cottage, Millers Lane, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for bungalow to the rear with access from Millers Lane at Sherlock Cottage, Millers Lane, Skerries, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to REFUSE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Gannon Homes Limited, 41-43 Shelbourne Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4, for change of use of 6 no. retail units to 12 no. one bedroom garden level apartments to phase 1 of proposed village on lands north of Glen Ellan at lands north of Glen Ellan, Swords, Co. Dublin. Martina Weldon, 48 Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, to construct a four bedroom two storey house with garage at rear at rear of 48 Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin D. Sweetman, Dublin Road, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow and septic tank at Courtlough, Co. Dublin. Barney Murray, Newtown Lane, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for two storey dwelling and biocycle unit at Newtown Lane, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Garvey, 11 The Rise, Balrothery, Co. Dublin, to to erect a bungalow, detached garage and septic tank at Darcystown, Balrothery, Co. Dublin. Overstone Ltd., 59 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, for ground floor extension to form granny flat to side, (previous reg. ref. F99A/0712) at 17 Boroimhe Oaks, Boroimhe, Swords, Co. Dublin. Peter & Mary Counihan, Newlawn, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for 3 no. 2 storey houses at Grange, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin. Hennerwood Ltd., 67 Balgblass Estate, Howth, Co. Dublin, for demolition of Minville and the erection of 2 no. 2 storey blocks each comprising 4 no. 2 bedroomed apartments at Minville, Thormanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Mr. Philip Oxley, 39 St. Nessans Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin, for amended 2 storey extension at rere and Velux roof lights in cottage roof at 39 St. Nessans Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin. Pat & Nuala Darcy, 1 Cherry Avenue, Rathingle, Swords, Co. Dublin, for attic conversion including alterations to front, rear and side elevations at 1 Cherry Avenue, Rathingle, Swords, Co. Dublin. Anaheim Ltd. 1 Stokes Place, St. Stephen's Green, Dublin 2, for for development of a mixed use Industry and Business Park omprising of 3 no. single storey industrial buildings with 2 storey ancillary offices and single storey Production/warehouse space of total area 2,100 sq.m. each, 5 no. single-storey industrial buildings with 2 storey ancillary offices and single storey Production/Warehouse spare, of total area 4,150 sq.m. each, 1 no Single storey industrial building with 2 st6orey ancillary offices and single storey Production/Warehouse space, of total area 6,35 sq.m., 1 no. single storey industrial building of total area 2460 sq.m. comprising of 10 no. self contained Office, Production and Warehouse/Storage Units, 1 no. single storey Industrial building of total area 2952 sq.m comprising of 12 no self-contained Office, Production and Warehouse/Storage Units, 2 no. 3 storey Office Buildings of total area 2,100 sq. m. each; Associated site works, including access road from county road to East, landscaping including 3,500 sq. m surface water. Retention Pond and Perimeter fence; A Security Control Kiosk, 3 no. Entrance Signs and miscellaneous directional signs; - 1 no. Tertiary Sewage Treatment Plant and associated Control Room and separate access road from county road to East; - Road widening to R121 to southy of site and to county road to east of site, on their 15.5 hectare site at at The Ward, Co. Dublin. Environmental Impact Statement will accompany this application and this will be available at the office of the Fingal County Council Planning Dept., along with any further information in relation to the proposed development which may be furnished to Fingal Co. Council in the course of consideration of the application. Sean Fox, Coolquoy Common, The Ward, Co. Dublin, for planning permission for retention of a lean-to shed attached to an existing shed for schooling of horses at Coolquoy Common, The Ward, Co. Dublin. Willowpark Construction Limited, The Leas, Swords, Co. Dublin, for 2 no. 4 bed detached houses, 10 no. 4 bed semi-detached houses, and 14 no. 3 bed semi-detached houses. at Skerries Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Requests for Site Notice in accordance with Article 16 of the Local Government (Planning and Development) Regulations 1994 were made in respect of the following applications:- D. Nolan, 23 Forest Court, River Valley, Swords, Co. Dublin, to alter the house type at site 321, Road 17 of the approved development (under permission F98A/0290) at the housing development at lands accessed from the distibutor road at Glen Ellan, Jugback Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin. K. Deering, Rustic Lodge, Carrick Hill, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for minor modifications to approved plans (F99A/1045) for new rear entrance from upper level, conversion and extension of garage to family accommodation, the creation of a gallery link, minor works and extension of driveway and car park area to rear at 21 Carrickbrack Road, Sutton South, Dublin 13. St. Sylvesters G.A.A. Club, 2 Church Road, Malahide, Co.Dublin, for playing pitch with terracing, fencing, floodlighting, training pitch, single storey changing pavillion, carparking for 80 cars, clus sign and games scoreboard at Bloomfield, The Hill, Malahide, Co. Dublin.  Requests for TIME EXTENSIONS in accordance with Section 26(4a) of the Local Government (Planning & Development) Act, 1963 as amended by Section 39(f) of the Local Government (Planning and Development) Act, 1976 were submitted and accepted in respect of the following applications: Patrick and Roisin Hughes, Rowans, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for dwelling house, horse stables and septic tank with puraflow waste water treatment system at Rowans Little, Lusk, Co. Dublin Gabrielle & Anthony Campbell, 20A Chapel Close, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to erect a two storey dwelling house, septic tank and percolation area, connection to existing mains water supply and entrance onto public roadway at Damastown, The Naul, Co. Dublin. Mrs. Margaret Campbell, Damastown, The Naul, Co. Dublin, to erect a two storey dwelling house, septic tank and percolation area, connection to existing mains water supply and entrance onto public roadway at Damastown, The Naul, Co. Dublin. Albany Homes Ltd., Top Floor, Estuary House, New Street, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for alterations to part of approved layout and development works (on and off site) and change of house types (Reg. Ref. F98A/0355) to give 402 no. dwellings (362 no. two storey houses, 128 no. two bed terraced houses, 129 no. three bed terraced houses, 102 no. three bed semi detached houses, 3 no. 3 bed detached houses and 40 no. two bed apartments in 10. no. two storey blocks) in lieu of 298 no. two storey houses (215 no. four bed houses) and 83 no. three bed houses) at lands Northwest of Glenellan Housing Estate, Swords, Co. Dublin. Island Associates, 14 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, for proposed change of use of part of light industrial/office use to call centre/direct marketing facility/data processing/information technology/software development/science and technology/research and development/office units, incorporating a new mezzanine level, toilets, roof lights, new entrance foyer, alterations to facade and associated site works to unit 3, Swords Business Campus, Balheary Road, Swords, Co.Dublin, Island Associates Limited, 14 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, for proposed change of use of part of light industrial/office use to call centre/direct marketing facility/fulfilment services facility/data processing/information technology/software development/science and technology/research and development/office units, incorporating new toilets, roof lights, new entrance foyer, alterations to facade and associated site works to unit 4, Swords Business Campus, Balheary Road, Swords, Co. Dublin.  The following applications were WITHDRAWN: P.T. Developments,1 Bancroft Down, Bancroft, Dublin 2, for four bedroom bungalow with site walls, car parking, paving and site works on site with vehicular access at site at rear of 17 Sandy Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Kenneth Langan, Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for construction of a four bedroomed dormer bungalow at Coast Road, Rogerstown, Co. Dublin. Conor Weldon, Hayestown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for construction of a four bedroomed dormer bungalow at Coast Road, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin. Catriona Farrell, 50 Hayestown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for construction of a a four bedroomed dormer bungalow at Coast Road, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin. David Pratt, O'Shea's, Balbriggan Harbour, Co. Dublin, for development (1,345 sq. metres) of 20 no. two bedroomed apartments, 2 no. one bedroomed apartments in two and three storey blocks (12.2 metres high over footpath level) over a ground level covered garage with parking for 46 no. cars, private open space, site walls and new public footpath at Balbriggan Harbour, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin  DECISIONS OF AN BORD PLEANALA: APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: 26 Forest Avenue, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: construction of a detached two storey dwellinghouse and associated works adjacent to no. 26. APPLICANT: auline Hiney  APPEALS NOTIFIED BY AN BORD PLEANALA REFUSE PERMISSION:Mr. Desmond O'Connor (jnr.), Kilreesk, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow, garage with biocycle treatment plant, percolation area and associate works. REFUSE PERMISSION: Mr. Rory O'Sullivan, No. 1 Killeen Terrace, St. Margaret's Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, to convert, alter and extend an existing structure abutting the gable of no. 1 Killeen Terrace which is a listed building, into a 2 storey residence with access from St. Margaret's Road. GRANT PERMISSION:N.and C. Gorman, Howth Hill Lodge Nursing Home, Thormanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for alterations and extension including additional floor over part of existing building. GRANT PERMISSION: P. & E. Condron, 43 Rivervalley Drive, Swords, Co. Dublin, for extension at first floor level over existing study and utility area to form new bedroom. GRANT PERMISSION: E. Blaney, 71 Offington Park, Sutton, Co. Dublin, for single storey granny flat extension. 
