housing
{ Rossa  White 
    August 14 2008 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/property-mortgages/traumatic-house-building-adjustment-set-to-continue-26469202.html }
What a difference two years makes for house building. Housing demand waned in mid-summer 2006 and builders reacted almost immediately. In June and July of that year, housing starts hit an annual rate of 97,000 (assuming that the rate of build in those months was to continue for a 12-month period). Last month, the annual rate dropped to a lowly 11,000 -- almost 90pc down on where we were two years ago. And weather is not to blame for July's low total: we seasonally adjust the data so that every month is the same. The elastic response of the industry is unparalleled as far as we can gather. Nordic countries went through a similar shakeout in the early 1990s. But despite huge declines in the volume of house building, none of those countries saw an adjustment that was as deep or rapid as ours. Builders should take credit for the swift reaction: even though the level of unsold stock is uncomfortably high as houses started in 2006 and 2007 are completed, the situation would be much worse if the industry had ignored market signals. Despite the decline in new activity, there is plenty of finished product about in 2008. In the past, the lag between housing starts (the lead indicator) and completions was around 9-12 months on average. That seems to have lengthened somewhat, as builders take longer to finish off work in the hope that market conditions will ameliorate. For this year, 45,000 completions are in the bag. In fact, we would not be surprised if the final total was a bit higher. Forecast It is really all about 2009 and 2010. Back in May, when we cut our forecast for completed houses to 25,000 for next year it was reported as unlikely and too pessimistic. We reckoned that builders would keep cutting back on new projects due to the unsold stock glut and, more importantly, to the tightening of credit availability for both mortgages and development. In the first half of the year, there were just over 14,000 housing starts in total (an annual rate of 28,000), but that pace dipped dramatically in July. We expect activity to pick up somewhat from the depressed July level, but would be surprised if the total for the first half of the year was bettered in the second. This year's number of starts will be a reasonably accurate guide to 2009 completions. At this stage, 25,000 still looks about right. Keep in mind that it is unlikely house completions will dip well below 20,000. It implies virtually no scheme house completions next year. First, one-off houses make up a growing proportion of the total these days. This type of building is more resilient. Based on recent trends, as many as 12,000-13,000 one-off houses may be finished in 2009. Second, 6,000-7,000 social house completions are planned. Housing activity continues to decline in response to the rising stock of new unsold homes. That stock of homes is the legacy of overbuild in 2003-2007 when interest rates were inappropriately low, credit was freely available and tax breaks plentiful. In that period, supply exceeded underlying demand by more than 50,000. New housing New housing investment hit an unprecedented 16pc of GNP. Because of the severity of the correction, that percentage will slip to 4pc by the end of 2009 -- lower than the EU average and below its share of the economy at any time since the first boom started in 1994. This year and next, new supply is set to undercut demand by 20-25,000. On paper, that is not enough to clear the excesses of the previous years. But there are problems with this analysis. Asset markets tend to overshoot. We could be faced with a secular period where supply does not match underlying demand. In any case, the concept of underlying demand is a movable feast. It is made up of household formation (of which immigration is an important variable), units to replace obsolete stock and demand for second or holiday homes. Immigration is heavily dependent on labour market conditions. Nowhere more so than in Ireland where what was a virtuous circle is now a vicious one. Immigrants were attracted in part by lucrative jobs in a booming construction sector and those workers of course required accommodation. Now the reverse is true. Growth in the number of households will be much lower than in the recent past. Ultimately, supply may not match theoretical demand for other reasons. In the UK for example, underlying demand was supposedly 250,000 over the last decade yet fewer than 200,000 houses were built each year on average thanks to planning constraints. Figure Next year, that figure may drop to 120,000 because credit is being rationed. In our model, underlying demand in Ireland in 2010-2012 with zero net migration is about 35,000. But it doesn't necessarily mean we'll build that many units. The housing market needs to reach a critical inflection point. That is where new house sales exceed new house completions. By definition, the stock of unsold units begins to drop when we reach that juncture. This year new house sales will not even reach half the rate of new house completions. Next year, we know that house completions are set to at least halve again. Will new house sales pick up to close the gap? The most important issue is to increase the supply of credit. The tightening of mortgage availability since about March onwards snuffed out the brief rally in housing sales early in the year. Banks still face the same high funding costs and global money markets will not normalise until many financial institutions raise more capital from investors. At this point, that looks like a glacial process. In the interim, the Government could play a temporary role by expanding mortgage lending to first-time buyers. That could precede demand-boosting interest rate cuts, which are now probable in the first half of 2009. 
