housing
{  
    July 13 2007 10:57 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/public-relations-didnt-measure-up-over-couples-complaints-about-new-road-judge-27554682.html }
Brendan and Bobby Smith, 11 Caltragh claimed that on diverse dates between 2004 and 2005 they suffered nuisance, loss and damages when dust, rubble and general material was allowed escape on to their property.The couple sued for ?4,454 which was made up of ?2,000 for the supply and laying of tarmac, ?2,000 for inconvenience, stress and annoyance and ?454 for power hosing.The Brendan and Bobby Smith, 11 Caltragh claimed that on diverse dates between 2004 and 2005 they suffered nuisance, loss and damages when dust, rubble and general material was allowed escape on to their property. The couple sued for ?4,454 which was made up of ?2,000 for the supply and laying of tarmac, ?2,000 for inconvenience, stress and annoyance and ?454 for power hosing. The case was taken against Ascon Contractors Limited, Kill, County Kildare and Sligo County Council, Riverside, Sligo. The Smiths were represented by Mr. Gerard McGovern, solicitor while Ms. Mary O’Sullivan B.L., instructed by Hussey Fraser Solicitors appeared on behalf of Ascon and Mr. Brian Armstrong, solicitor represented the County Council. At the outset of the case, Mr. Armstrong pointed out that the area in which the Smiths lived was inside the Borough so the proceedings against the County Council should be amended to the Borough Council. The amendment was then made by Mr. McGovern. Mr. McGovern explained that the claim arose out of the carrying out of ancillary and accommodation works for the construction of a new roadway and roundabout at Caltragh Road in conjunction with the construction of the Inner Relief Road between 2004 and 2005. The first named defendant was engaged by the Council to carry out the works in the vicinity of Caltragh.  Roundabout Mr. McGovern said the works included changing the entrance to the Smith’s house, the provision of new kerbing, a green area and a tarmacadem surface. A new water main was also laid outside their house. It would be claimed, said Mr. McGovern, that the plaintiff’s house had been completely destroyed with dirt and grime as a result of the construction works and that large amounts of material including block and wood were stored outside their home. The driveway of the Smith house was also interfered with. Dirt and dust became lodged in it and it was also damaged after small stones were carried on to by their car, he said. Mr. McGovern said the Smiths would also be claiming that their normal day to day living was effected and they were caused stress and annoyance. Mrs. Smith suffered from a medical condition and she could not open the windows of her house during the summers of 2004 and 2005 to let in fresh air because there was so much dust. Brendan Smith, in evidence, said he and his wife lived at 11 Caltragh since 1989 and at the time it was practically a rural area. The work began on the new road in 2003 and it began affecting the plaintiff in 2004 when work began 20 feet from his house on an access road to the new Inner Relief Road.  Dust Heavy machinery, diggers and lorries created dust in dry weather while there was mud and clay when it was wet. The road was on an incline so “it all washed towards me.” The plaintiff said he tried to keep the place clean himself and Ascon used a road sweeper but at times this “left a cloud of dust after it.” Mr. Smith said he complained to Ascon on three occasions but only once did someone come down to see him at his house. The plaintiff said that during the construction of the roundabout a space outside his house was used for the storage of blocks, wood and rocks. Works were also carried out outside his front gate. However, there was a four inch gap left between the road and the kerb and this was excessive, said the plaintiff. He still had difficulty with the height of the kerbing. When driving into his home he had to stop and engage first gear in order to negotiate the kerb. Dirt and grime became lodged in his driveway and there was excessive wear and tear on the tarmac.  Apologised Richard Cloonan of Ascon called to see him and he apologised for the condition of his tarmac. Mr. Cloonan also agreed that the levels outside the gate were excessive. However, Mr. Cloonan told the plaintiff that the driveway was not his responsibility but that of the County Council and the project engineer, Paul Canning. Mr. Smith said that because of his wife’s medical condition she had to stay indoors during hot sunny days but she was unable to open a window because of all the dust. A new water main was laid outside his house but he wasn’t made aware of when the work was to start and he got his car out of his driveway “just in time before the digging started.” The council subsequently apologised to him for this lack of notice. This work lasted for three to four days. The plaintiff said he received two “dismissive” letters from the council when he complained and he recalled having a brief meeting with Mr. Canning. Mr. Smith said Mr. Canning walked away stating that he “didn’t want to hear anything more about this wall.”  Stressed The plaintiff said he felt stressed and annoyed at the way he had been treated. “I was not looking for gates, walls or anything just my driveway cleaned. I’d have been quite happy with that,” he said. The plaintiff recalled that in the original drawings he would have had to exit his house directly on to the roundabout and when he pointed this out the design was changed. In reply to Ms. O’Sullivan, the plaintiff said that at no time was a serious effort made to sweep or keep the road clean. Referring to pictures handed in on behalf of the plaintiff, Judge McGuinness said they clearly suggested an unravelling of the tarmac. “We say this is down to general wear and tear,” said Ms. O’Sullivan. The plaintiff said that for two years there was non stop dust and grime and he was informed the house needed power washing. In reply to Mr. Armstrong, Mr. Smith said he accepted that there would be some disruption with such a major infrastructural project. He wasn’t looking for generous treatment just for his complaints to be dealt with. Mrs. Smith gave evidence of her medical condition and how she had to keep all the windows shut in the summer due to the dust. Gerry Duggan, Engineer, in evidence, said he attended at the plaintiff’s house on May 6th 2006 and inspected the kerbing outside the house. There was a raised level of three inches at worst which would mean a driver would impact with the kerb on entering the driveway. Witness said he noticed on the day before the court that the kerbing had been dished somewhat through the use of an angle grinder. “This wouldn’t be common practice because the aggregate has been exposed in this case,” said Mr. Duggan.  Safety He added that this was a safety issue being so close to a roundabout with a driver having to put two wheels of a car down first on exiting the driveway and then having to stop. Paul Scanlon, in evidence, said he was involved in the tarmacadem business for many years and recalled inspecting the plaintiff’s driveway in early 2006. The entrance to the driveway was discoloured. This was the main problem he observed. The life span of a driveway was between 20 and 25 years and there was some wear and tear on it. It was a narrow, short driveway so there would be no twisting and turning on it. Witness said he saw a lot of grit on the driveway and this would loosen and unravel the surface. Tarmac was porous so the dirt would seep into it. Power washing it would only damage it further, said witness. Excessive grit coming in and out on the wheels of the car was responsible for most of the unravelling, he said. His solution would be to resurface the driveway. P. J. Kenna, in evidence, said he had a power washing business and said he visited the plaintiff’s house in early 2006. He saw dirt under the window sills, along the front of the house and on the roof. Dirt was also “beaten into the drive.” In reply to Mr. McGovern, witness said he worked in the past for Ascon, washing down the boundaries of houses which became dirty as a result of passing lorries. Richard Cloonan, in evidence, said he was site manager for Ascon and recalled that most of the work around the plaintiff’s house took place in 2005. Witness agreed that there would have been building materials stored in that area but he was obliged to maintain access to properties. He said he spoke to the plaintiff on two or three occasions. The first time was in relation to the design of his access and witness directed him to the council. On the second occasion witness went to see the plaintiff at his house. Mr. Smith wanted tarmac laid across the entire area outside his house while he also discussed access to and from his home.  Best Witness said he did not remember the plaintiff complaining about anything. Ascon were never asked to power wash his house. Mr. Cloonan said he did his very best to minimise disruption and he was very happy at the way the job was being done. He didn’t notice anything out of the ordinary with the plaintiff’s driveway. There was no excessive wear and tear in his opinion. In reply to Judge McGuinness, witness said that on occasions during the works he could see discolouration on the driveway. Witness said he got the impression the plaintiff would have liked his driveway upgraded. In reply to Mr. McGovern, witness said materials were not stacked outside the plaintiff’s house. Only stuff immediately required were stored there. Mr. Cloonan said he wrote to the plaintiff to tell him that he was not accepting responsibility for damage to his driveway or nuisance arising from dust. Witness told Mr. McGovern that there was no figure set aside in the ?30 million contract for clean up. It was put to witness that Ascon had ignored the plaintiff and passed all matters over to the council. “The last thing I did was ignore Mr. Smith. I deny trying to pass it over. My relationship with him was very cordial,” said witness. Paul Canning, who was appointed project engineer for the Inner Relief Road in 2002 said he had seen the plaintiff’s driveway on several occasions and he thought it looked good given that it was 20 years old. He did not observe any discolouration or damage. Witness said he would not discuss other neighbour’s works with the plaintiff. Mr. Smith had mentioned about other people getting work done and that was when he told him he had heard enough about another neighbour’s wall. Mr. Canning said he also looked at the driveway on the morning of the court and he thought it was reasonable for its age. “The house looked clean as well,” he said. In response to Mr. McGovern, witness said he would be quite happy if it was his own house. Witness said there were two road sweeping machines with water engaged on the project and they went immediately to where he directed. Mr. Canning said it would not have been feasible to erect netting to shield the plaintiff’s house from dust. This could only be done on buildings with the netting attached to scaffolding. Witness said the kerbing outside the plaintiff’s house was lowered within a week or two of Mr. Smith mentioning this. The exposed aggregate that was now present would not weather. Giving judgement, Judge McGuinness said it was clear that public relations just didn’t measure up in the defendants dealings with the plaintiffs. The Judge said he was satisfied that the plaintiff’s house suffered the most from dust due to its proximity to the works. Judge McGuinness noted that Mr. Scanlon had stated that the main problem with the driveway was discolouration and that Mr. McKenna had said he found dirt and dust under ledges and elsewhere upon close examination. “It is clear the tarmac was adversely affect but I have to bear in mind it was laid between eighteen and twenty years ago so the plaintiffs are not entitled to a complete replacement,” he said. Judge McGuinness allowed half of the claim in relation to the driveway and also 50% in respect of the discomfort experienced. The plaintiffs were awarded a decree for ?2,454 plus costs and witness expenses of ?1,050. 
