housing
{  
    July 01 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/st-marys-road-has-charm-of-the-country-26913768.html }
St. Mary’s Road has for many years been one of the most desirable addresses in Dundalk and to this day it retains a sense of charm harking back to a bygone era.Elegant houses line one side of the street, while breathtaking views of the Cooley mountains can be glimpsed over the high stone wall bordering the grounds of St. Mary’s College. St. Mary’s Road has for many years been one of the most desirable addresses in Dundalk and to this day it retains a sense of charm harking back to a bygone era. Elegant houses line one side of the street, while breathtaking views of the Cooley mountains can be glimpsed over the high stone wall bordering the grounds of St. Mary’s College. Indeed, if it wasn’t for the constant hum of traffic, it would be easy to imagine horse drawn carriages drawing up to the imposing houses. The street has links with the commercial and business development of the town going back to the 19th century. When Bray couple John Murphy and Emer Kenny moved into Kelso Terrace six years ago they set about researching the history of their new home. “This house and the one next door were built in 1860 and were the first on the street,” says John. “The terrace was named after the landowner from whom the land was bought and the houses were owned by the woolen mills and used as homes for their directors.” “It’s a brilliant location here and the house had all its period features when we moved in,” he says. While the house had been renovated when they bought it, they re-decorated it to their taste and also set about creating a beautiful garden in what had once been a concrete yard leading to an old coach house at the back of their house. And John says he has been told that the reason why the street is so wide is that officers from the British Army stationed in Dundalk had lived in big red brick houses and road was kept wide so that soldiers could march up and down! He has old deeds belonging to the house which show that previous owners include the Donoghues and McKevitts. John and Emer moved to Dundalk in 1988 when he came to work in Ecco as an engineer. Emer is a singer and the couple are currently working on her new album which is due for release later this year. Emer’s music has featured in a number of Hollywood films, television programmes, including the hit US series Roswell, and radio advertisements. The couple have a young daughter Rosie and the proximity of the playground in St. Helena Park is a major bonus for them. “The park is brilliant for kids,” says John. Having grown up in Church Street, Bibi Lally (nee Byron) remembers playing basketball in the Marist grounds when she was a schoolgirl and says she always wanted to live in St. Mary’s Road. Bibi and her husband Colm had been living around the corner in Mary Street North when they got the opportunity to buy their lovely home in Mountainview Terrace. “We literally carried our stuff round the back entry and into the house,” she recalls. Since then, they have done a lot of work to the house, restoring original features, to make a bright and welcoming home for their three boys, David, Stephen and Aaron. Bibi was actually in the middle of preparations for Stephen’s 12th birthday party when ‘The Argus’ called last week and was planning on taking the boys to St. Helena Park for a game of football. “The park is just brilliant,” she says, adding that her boys also enjoy playing in the Marist grounds where Stephen is a student. “I absolutely love it here,” she enthuses. “It’s so central yet it’s like living in the country. When I open the curtains, I’m looking across the Marist grounds to the mountains. It’s an absolutely beautiful view.” Bibi feels that the street comes into its own at Christmas time, when brightly lit trees adorn the bay windows overlooking the street. She believes that their home is around a hundred years old and points out that a family called Tynan lived in it for many years. “By coincidence the great grandchildren of that family are friends with my children and come here to play,” she says. Barbara and Paddy McCusker also live in Mountainview Terrace, just a couple of doors down from where Paddy grew up in adjoining Kelso Terrace. “We’ve been living here thirteen years and before that the house belonged to Maguires, a bank manager, and Byrnes, the family who owned the chemist shop” says Barbara. “Our house was the last to be built and was actually built where there used to be a laneway,” she says. “It’s a lovely street and all the houses are different with their own character,” she says. “Everything is so convenient here as we are so close to town.” However, the advent of pay-parking has led to a problem with people parking their cars in the street all day, she notes. Terry Woods who lives a few doors down agrees that traffic is a problem which causes considerable nuisance for residents. “The street has really changed since the by-pass opened and at times it’s like a speedway,” he says. “And during the day it’s almost impossible to get parked outside the houses.” The house in which Terry and his wife Phyllis have been living in for the past thirty years had previously belong to the Miss Sweeney’s, he recalls. “From the point of view of the houses and the area it would be hard to get better,” he says. “It’s very central and close to everything one would need.” Dermot Hannan who lives in Faughart Terrace moved to Dundalk from Dublin a year ago, enticed by lower property prices and easy access to Dublin airport. “We couldn’t afford to live in Dublin,” he explains, adding that the fine house in which he now lives with his wife cost the same amount as an apartment in the capital. He and his wife run their own I.T. business and he says that the availability of broadband was crucial to their decision to move here. “Three things which will help Dundalk a lot are broadband, the motorway and train station,” he says. “I can go from my front door and check-in at the airport in an hour which is less than it would take from certain parts of Dublin.” In addition to its suitability as a business location, Dermot says he likes Dundalk because the pace of life is slower than in a city. “People are friendly and have more time for you than in Dublin. We are really glad we moved.” There is, however, one thing which he doesn’t like about the street. “What I find very disappointing is the amount of dog fouling which goes on,” he says, adding that dog owners are failing to use the ‘poop and scoop’ bins provided by the Town Council. Owen McDonnell has been living in St. Mary’s Road with his mother Irene for the past ten years. “It’s a great place to live, I love the area, it’s nice and quiet yet close to the town,” summing up the street’s charm. “I absolutely love it here,” she enthuses. “It’s so central yet it’s like living in the country. When I open the curtains, I’m looking across the Marist grounds to the mountains. It’s an absolutely beautiful view.” Bibi feels that the street comes into its own at Christmas time, when brightly lit trees adorn the bay windows overlooking the street. She believes that their home is around a hundred years old and points out that a family called Tynan lived in it for many years. “By coincidence the great grandchildren of that family are friends with my children and come here to play,” she says. Barbara and Paddy McCusker also live in Mountainview Terrace, just a couple of doors down from where Paddy grew up in adjoining Kelso Terrace. “We’ve been living here thirteen years and before that the house belonged to Maguires, a bank manager, and Byrnes, the family who owned the chemist shop” says Barbara. “Our house was the last to be built and was actually built where there used to be a laneway,” she says. “It’s a lovely street and all the houses are different with their own character,” she says. “Everything is so convenient here as we are so close to town.” However, the advent of pay-parking has led to a problem with people parking their cars in the street all day, she notes. Terry Woods who lives a few doors down agrees that traffic is a problem which causes considerable nuisance for residents. “The street has really changed since the by-pass opened and at times it’s like a speedway,” he says. “And during the day it’s almost impossible to get parked outside the houses.” The house in which Terry and his wife Phyllis have been living in for the past thirty years had previously belong to the Miss Sweeney’s, he recalls. “From the point of view of the houses and the area it would be hard to get better,” he says. “It’s very central and close to everything one would need.” Dermot Hannan who lives in Faughart Terrace moved to Dundalk from Dublin a year ago, enticed by lower property prices and easy access to Dublin airport. “We couldn’t afford to live in Dublin,” he explains, adding that the fine house in which he now lives with his wife cost the same amount as an apartment in the capital. He and his wife run their own I.T. business and he says that the availability of broadband was crucial to their decision to move here. “Three things which will help Dundalk a lot are broadband, the motorway and train station,” he says. “I can go from my front door and check-in at the airport in an hour which is less than it would take from certain parts of Dublin.” In addition to its suitability as a business location, Dermot says he likes Dundalk because the pace of life is slower than in a city. “People are friendly and have more time for you than in Dublin. We are really glad we moved.” There is, however, one thing which he doesn’t like about the street. “What I find very disappointing is the amount of dog fouling which goes on,” he says, adding that dog owners are failing to use the ‘poop and scoop’ bins provided by the Town Council. Owen McDonnell has been living in St. Mary’s Road with his mother Irene for the past ten years. “It’s a great place to live, I love the area, it’s nice and quiet yet close to the town,” summing up the street’s charm. 
