housing
{ Kathy Donaghy 
    November 13 2014 02:05 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/home-garden/homes/what-is-the-true-cost-of-a-property-with-a-view-30742168.html }
Property valuers agree that it doesn't matter whether you want to see the waves crash on the rocks from your seafront deck or enjoy the views of the city lights from your balcony, you're going to pay a price premium of at least 20pc for above average scenery from the best windows of a home. And nowhere is a good view more sought after and fought after than in a city where a glimpse of nature is a welcome respite from traffic chaos and grey urban sprawl. Ireland's capital is lucky to be sandwiched between the mountains and the sea, and so there's an unusually varied selection of extraordinary views on offer. Modern high-rise architecture and the redevelopment of the docklands has introduced a new sought-after picture window to Dublin - the view across the rooftops and down into the busiest streets from the high city apartment block. Finally, if you're living in the hills at Ticknock or Brittas, then the entire city itself and the sea beyond becomes the view - especially at night when the twinkling lights from half a million clustered homes become a sight that's worth paying extra for. So what is Dublin's most expensive view? Is it the blue sea and islands across Scotsman's Bay or the funky neon-lit waterfront at the Canal Basin? We asked Dublin's estate agents which views they believed to be most sought after and we asked them to place a monetary value on them. So here are Dublin's top 10 views and how much extra you'll pay for the privilege. 1 Howth, €250,000 While Dubliners who can't afford to live here make do with a weekend trip to the village, the Hill of Howth is one of Dublin's most sought after addresses with residents including Riverdance creators Moya Doherty and John McColgan and U2's Larry Mullen Jr. With extraordinary sea views down through the gorse-pocked hillsides, the Baily Lighthouse and cliffs that tumble down to the sea (sometimes houses have done this too), Howth views are what people dream of in North Dublin. According to Adam Clarke, branch manager of Sherry Fitzgerald, a 1,800 sq ft house on Upper Cliff Road is currently on the market for €1.1 million. With views down to Howth Harbour and looking out to Ireland's Eye, the incredible vista is the house's unique selling point. According to Clarke, a similar size house in Howth without the views would have an asking price of €750,000 - a difference of over a quarter of a million. 2 The Clontarf Waterfront, €500,000 The cosy village atmosphere of Clontarf with its views of the sea and proximity to the city is one of north Dublin's most sought after addresses. Experts estimate that a house on the seafront at Clontarf Road will sell for between €850,000 and €1.5m. Equivalent homes on Kincora Road, just behind Clontarf Road would be between €700,000 and €1m. That's €500,000 extra. 3 Killiney, €500,000 Walking around Killiney Hill in an area which has long been compared for visual impact with the Bay of Naples, it's easy to see why some of the country's rich and famous, including U2's Bono, made this area their home. Buying a property in Killiney overlooking the sea is never going to be cheap. Simon Ensor of Sherry Fitzgerald says a home along Killiney Hill Road will cost anywhere from €2.5m to €3.5m. He says there's no doubt a premium price will be paid for a property with a great view, the more unobscured and clear, the higher the price. It's estimated that a house on Killiney Hill Road on an acre of land will sell for between €2m and €2.5m but a house on Military Road, which doesn't have the view of the sea, will sell for between €1.5m and €2m. So, in terms of a Killiney view, you're paying half a million euro more. 4 Vico Road, Dalkey, €1m With its panoramic scenery and heritage village, Dalkey is home to a host of millionaires. The houses on Vico Road, with their stunning sea views looking out to Dalkey Island, typically fetch between €2m and €5m depending on the size of the house. If you move a little further away from the sea onto Castle Street in the village itself, you can typically expect to pay between €2.5m and €4m for a house. At the higher end, your view is worth a cool million euros extra, according to experts. 5 Skerries Sea View, €155,000 The picturesque seaside village of Skerries in the north of the county has plenty of commanding views of the sea. Dermot Grimes of Grimes Real Estate Alliance says they're selling a detached house in Kelly's Bay Development on the outskirts of the village. The house has uninterrupted sea views over Rockabill Lighthouse and as far up the coast as Clogherhead in Co Louth - one of the best Skerries views you can get. It's on the market for €495,000. A semi-detached house in the same development with no sea views will typically fetch up to €340,000. While Grimes says there are some other factors at play, the view is the principle reason for the €155,000 price differential. 6 Grand Canal Dock, €110,000+ According to estate agent Owen Reilly, apartments on Grand Canal Dock are among the most popular addresses in the city right now. With a buzzing atmosphere and views looking out onto edgy contemporary landmark architecture like the Bord Gais Theatre and the Marker Hotel, the city's newest hotspot is becoming an expensive place to live. The rectangular water-filled basin, once a hub of barge traffic, is now the perfect water feature to look down on. Reilly's agency recently sold an apartment overlooking a courtyard in the area for €410,000. A similar but smaller apartment with a view over Grand Canal Dock sold for €520,000. Owen Reilly says the prices are rising and the dock view is now worth substantially more than €100,000. 7 Ticknock Hilltop Vista, €90,000 If views of the city skyline and of Dublin's twinkling light cluster at night are your thing, then the vistas from Ticknock and the higher reaches of Brittas are spectacular. According to Sonia Pallas of Sherry FitzGerald in Dundrum, views from the Sandyford View apartments are extra special as the city lights come on at night. She says they sold a penthouse apartment in the development with views overlooking the city and of the sea for €300,000 earlier this year. A similar sized apartment without the view sold for €210,000 - which puts the view of Dublin's skyline at around €90,000. 8 Malahide Sea View, €60,000 Situated by the sea and surrounded by parklands, Malahide is one of the most salubrious addresses on the north side of Dublin. According to David Blanc of Sherry Fitzgerald Blanc, you can expect to pay around €50,000 or €60,000 euro more for a family home with a sea view in Malahide. The agency recently handled the sale of a four bedroom semi-detached home in Sea Park on the Coast Road with views across the bay to Lambay Island. The house sold for €680,000. A similar sized house in Chalfont without sea views sold for €630,000. 9 Dun Laoghaire Marina, €50,000 With its famous piers and a marina full of yachts and sailboats, Dun Laoghaire's old world charm and sea views are what make it a sought after address. According to Keith Lowe, of DNG which is selling The Crofton apartments at Marine Road, you will typically pay €50,000 more for an apartment with a sea view here than one without. Lowe says the asking price for those apartments with the sea view where you can watch the boats at the Royal St George Yacht Club is €425,000, while the asking price for the ones without is €375,000. For the big period houses the difference is similar or nothing given that those roads back from the main drag are equally sought for the relative peace and lack of traffic. 10 River Liffey Apartment Vista, €50,000 Once upon a time only the upper reaches of Liberty Hall offered the perfect birds' eye vista sweeping up and down the River Liffey. But the revitalised Docklands and their high apartment blocks have become a sough-after address for techie types and IFSC workers seeking the perfect Liffey visual sweep from their balconies. The contemporary postcard of Dublin is now the night-lit Beckett Bridge and the National Conference Centre. Our experts say you can expect to pay €350,000 for an apartment on the waterfront compared with €300,000 for one without. Indo Property 
