housing
{ WILLIE DILLON 
    May 24 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/price-spiral-makes-housing-key-factor-26151112.html }
SPIRALLING property prices have pushed local authority housing up the agenda in council elections, particularly in urban areas.With private house prices soaring beyond the reach even of average earners, there are more demands on local councillors to increase the pace of local authority house building. Many parts of the country have seen large increases in their local authority housing list since the property boom started. Council candidates are being told their support on polling day depends on what they do to provide houses for the increasing numbers of people who cannot afford their own. In Galway city, the housing list has doubled in the last three to four years, with just over 800 applicants currently on a waiting list. Galway Corporation and local public representatives say rocketing prices in the private sector have forced increasing numbers of people onto the local authority queue. Speaking to the Local Authority Housing Practitioners Annual Conference in Galway yesterday, Housing Minister Bobby Molloy called on local authorities to use the recently announced Affordable Housing Scheme. A total of 46 houses are being built at Ballybane in Galway as part of the scheme. To qualify for one of the £65,000 houses, an eligible buyer must not earn more than £20,000, while the income ceiling for a couple is £27,000. Limerick Corporation will build 85 houses this year but there are 450 people on the waiting list. The local authority's £7.1m housing allocation for 1999 also includes halting sites for travellers and other schemes. The 85 new dwellings are being built in small clusters around Limerick city. Because of a shortage of building land, the corporation is currently seeking a boundary extension into counties Limerick and Clare. Housing looks set to be a major issue in both the elections to Cork Corporation and Cork Co Council with both local authorities trying to cope with bulging housing lists and inadequate funding. According to Cork Corporation, there are currently 1,601 on its housing list. Cork Co Council has around 3,200 on its housing list between its three divisions, with sanction approved for just 300 houses to try and alleviate the problem. The cost of private housing and the impact of spiralling prices on young couples is one of the main issues facing candidates in Louth and Meath. Both counties are seeing huge influxes of commuting Dublin workers. A £110,000 house in Drogheda can represent a £50,000 saving for those who are willing to travel to and from Dublin. However the demand has pushed up property prices for local people. Fine Gael Senator Fergus O'Dowd, standing for both Drogheda Corporation and Louth Co Council, said he was aware of speculators approaching landowners to buy key tracts of land. ``This land then becomes unavailable for use by the county council unless they pay the property speculator an even higher sum for it,'' he added. In Athlone, the local UDC's housing land bank is set to be exhausted by the end of next year. The council may now have to bid for property which goes up for sale locally to satisfy the growing housing demand. In Waterford, there are 1,360 people on the corporation's housing list, and it may be years before many of those eventually get a home of their own.  The local authority is to build 100 new houses this year, while voluntary housing agencies such as Respond, Focus and the Care of the Aged will provide another 110 approximately. 
