housing
{ JAMES YOUNG 
    August 17 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/why-short-term-fixes-on-house-prices-wont-work-26141422.html }
NEW FIGURES released yesterday confirm what everyone looking for a house already knew, it is even more expensive to buy one now than it was last year. The figures released by Sherry FitzGerald indicate that this year house prices are expected to rise over 25pc. This will also be the third successive year that prices rose by at least 25pc. Why? Weren't the reforms of the Bacon Report meant to address these rapid house price increases? Yes, they were. But the government decided only to implement part of the recommendations and go for the short-term solution. BACON REPORT The Bacon Report outlined that there were problems with the incentives within the housing market, especially when demand for housing was greatly exceeding supply. The report recommended that incentives be taken out of the market (to reduce demand) and that higher housing density (even high rise developments in urban locations) combined with more zoned serviced residential land be made available to reduce the supply problem. What did the government do? They went for the short-term solution that was in their best interest: take away the tax incentives and reduce stamp duty on second hand houses. The infrastructure changes could wait. And reforming the archaic planning system to allow higher densities or even high rise buildings would create a civil service nightmare (with the planners). Of course, creaming off more money by percentage based taxes appears to be much more important than taking care of the real problem in the housing market, which is supply. It is clear that the government does not understand the very basic economic relationship that is driving these figures: it is supply and demand. As demand for housing goes up, the supply of housing must increase or prices go up to reflect the shortage of supply. The government has implemented many demand side measures in the past. Section 23 was pivotal in increasing demand for inner-city apartments. Mortgage interest relief, along with Section 23, brought many investors to the market, which provided affordable rented accommodation. By taking away the investment incentives (the short-term solution), rents went up to take into account the loss of the tax benefits. And what happened? Rents went up considerably and the demand for apartments and other higher density housing dried up until it became beneficial for investors to return (meaning much higher rents). Had supply measures and infrastructure changes taken place along with the other measures recommended, we would not be facing the severe house price inflation we have now. Mind you, we should not blame the investors for the increases in prices. Nor should we blame developers. We should blame the government for inaction on the supply side. There is simply not enough zoned serviced land for the amount of housing development that is needed. Site prices simply reflect the shortage (not enough supply, too much demand). The government provides the services that could relieve this shortage (they are the only ones who do). DEVELOPMENTS The government will collect nearly £1bn in taxes from house buyers (not developers) this year (their take goes up as prices go up). Yet, the government has not provided adequate infrastructure for housing development with this money. Did all of this demand for housing come out of the blue? Are the rapid house price rises due entirely to infrastructure inadequacies? The answer to both is no. The population projections showing that a significant increase in the typical home buying age group have been around for years. The focused tax regime to bring in more multi-national corporations and provide more jobs should have also given a pointer to increased housing demand. So why haven't the infrastructures to take into account these known changes in the population of Ireland and housing demand been put into place (the EU even stumped up a lot of money for it, you remember?) THE GOVERNMENT has even blatantly ignored much of their own report outlining the solutions to the housing crisis in the longer term. The government may decide to follow them now, but over 50pc has been added to house prices since then (two years since the first Bacon report). Based upon the evidence of increased prices and increased rents, the government's short-term solution (the market absorbed these changes within six months) did nothing but create a general housing crisis, which is getting worse. And what is the government considering now? Another short-term solution that will further increase prices for housing and keep the cash flowing in. They will conveniently forget that planning and inadequate infrastructures are the most pressing problems. Unless something is done immediately to address these fundamental problems, we sill see in the new millennium with another 25pc increase in house prices.  * JAMES YOUNG is an economist specialising in the European property market 
