housing
{ TREACY HOGAN Environment Correspondent 
    November 20 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/high-density-the-solution-to-housing-26168978.html }
THE days of the traditional semi detached house, with front and back gardens, are numbered.Under radical new proposals made yesterday, at a housing seminar by the Royal Institute of Architects of Ireland and the Irish Planning Institute, traditional design could soon be replaced by an Irish property landscape of more apartments, duplexes and smaller houses in a bid to ease the current housing crisis. Economist Peter Bacon, the mastermind behind the Government's housing strategy and author of the Bacon Report, said higher density housing was vital to stabilise house prices. And the Government is now set to bring in new planning measures in the New Year to facilitate higher density developments across the country, it emerged last night. The typical Dublin house, which has dominated urban planning for the past 20 years, gave 6-10 houses per acre, Mr Bacon said yesterday. Building 13 homes per acre would go a long way towards alleviating the current housing crisis, he suggested. The higher density rate could increase the number of new homes for the entire Dublin area from 79,314 to 91,225. Mr Bacon cited the 70-80 homes per acre density proposed for the docklands area. He said the previous house model was a traditional semi with a front and back garden in very low density. However, the country needed to continue to build 40,000 houses a year to impact on prices. Mr Bacon explained that densities in excess of 13 units per acre would require different dwelling types such as apartments, duplexes, single frontage dwellings. But he warned that higher densities would require higher design standards than those in evidence in many present developments. ``Higher densities result in a more efficient utilisation of existing infrastructure, provide a more economic operating framework for public transport, reduce energy needs and carbon monoxide emissions and provide the necessary market demand to sustain acceptable levels of shopping and services,'' said Mr Bacon. He said the introduction of his measures by the Government had resulted in some slowing down in house prices and a greater number of houses being bought by first-time buyers. But Mr Bacon said prices were still high, supply had to be increased to stabilise the market and the next step was to increase the level of housing density. Demand for housing was fuelled by a number of factors; people moving out of the family home earlier, more going on to third level education and needing rented accommodation, and more people buying houses because of improved economic circumstances. Housing Minister Bobby Molloy revealed yesterday that low density levels were contributing to house price increases. While new planning guidelines on residential density are on the way, Local authorities had been asked to increase their densities. RIAI Housing Task Force chairman, James Pike, told the seminar that the question of subsidising housing needed urgent re-examination. ``A recent study in London showed that 50pc of households needed some form of subsidy. It seems very likely that this is going to be the case in Dublin also,'' he said. RIAI president Eoin O Cofaigh said higher density housing would make homes more affordable, help improve the environment and put an end of the endless lines of traffic coming into city centres each day. ``Higher densities cold result in a win, win, win situation. Spreading land costs over a greater number of dwellings will make housing more affordable both in the private and public sector,'' he said. Mr O Cofaigh said high density did not mean high rise. In many of the `desirable' parts of Dublin people lived terraced houses at 20 to an acre. In places such as Terenure or Stoneybatter, the count was 40 houses to the acre.  Higher density would mean greater use of public transport, shorter distances to shops, schools, churches and other social facilities. 
