housing
{  
    April 04 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/hazelwood-house-council-hears-key-duty-is-to-protect-building-27526399.html }
A member of Sligo County Council has suggested that the local authority might have the power to refurbish Hazelwood House and then place the cost as a charge on its owners, Saehan Media, to be recovered if or when the property is sold. But a top council official has advised that he thought that might be the case if the building was going into decay. "I don’t think we have the power to refurbish it in its entirety," said Director of Services Mr. Pat Forkan, who added that he would have to check the matter. But Clr. Declan Bree wondered if the council, as a planning authority, could have the House, a protected structure, refurbished if Saehan did not refurbish it, and then put the cost as a charge on Saehan. The issue of the future of Hazelwood House arose at a meeting of Sligo County Council on Monday at which there were three motions from councilors on the council’s agenda in relation to the future of the historic building. Clr. Jude Devins proposed that the county council give its full support, and make every effort, to ensure that Hazelwood House came back into public/local authority/civic trust ownership. Clr. Seamus Kilgannon proposed that the council lend its support and expertise to the campaign seeking State aid to help acquire Hazelwood House and the immediately surrounding area. And Clr. Ita Fox, who was not present at the council meeting because of a bereavement, had proposed that the council call on the government to negotiate a settlement with Saehan Media to secure Hazelwood House and have it revert back to State ownership as a major tourist attraction in the region in view of its historical value. Clr. Kilgannon said that what the local committee was setting out to do was undoubtedly a daunting task, and this was where the local authorities could help prepare a submission to government so that Hazelwood House would again become a hub from which would radiate an array of activities benefiting not only the local community but also the wider North West region. He said that Hazelwood House was the finest 18th Century house in County Sligo and every effort should be made to save the house for the community, for the region and the country. Clr. Sean MacManus thought that the situation that pertained to Lissadell should not pertain to Hazelwood. "It should be kept in public ownership," he said. Clr. Veronica Cawley said there was a substantial work that needed to be done on Hazelwood House but she thought it would be well-invested money, and it was part of the history of the country. She thought use of the Saehan property would be restricted because of environmental issues. She also thought the house should be taken, separately from the factory, into public ownership. "I think there are good uses that it could be put to," she said. Clr. Kilgannon: "There is an active committee there but they are just volunteers. Surely there is professional help within the council that could help prepare a submission to government." Heritage Officer Sharon Eastwood told the councilors that there had been meetings between the Heritage Council and the Irish Georgian Society about the protection of Hazelwood House. She also said the council had been providing support to residents’ groups, and Sligo Field Club also had people keen to support the residents. Clr. Bree said that he supported the motions. He pointed out that six or seven months ago, he had written to the council about Hazelwood House because people had written to him about its deterioration. "Clearly, if we go out and look at the house, it’s obvious refurbishment works need to be carried out, sooner rather than later," he said. He asked, in view of the fact that Saehan was to close and that the House was a protected structure, if it was the case that the council, as a planning authority, could move in, have the House refurbished if Saehan did not refurbish it, and then put the cost as a charge on Saehan if it attempted to sell the property. Clr. Albert Higgins thought the major problem with this project would be "the heritage people in Dublin." "The feeling is that the restrictions that would be put by groups and organizations in Dublin, that the thing will not stand up and will not be a runner," Clr. Higgins warned. But he said it would "be lovely if we could get the money." Ms. Eastwood said she thought the key duty was to protect the house and not let it deteriorate any further, and the council could advise people on what should be done. Mr. Forkan said the council had meetings with people interested in the house. The talk now was about the sale of the house and land, and if that went through, they would be in a stronger position. He said the current thinking was to ensure the house was protected. Clr. Bree thought the fact that Saehan was closing down meant that there was now a golden opportunity to restore the house at the expense of Saehan. He said Saehan had an obligation to have the house restored to a high standard and if not, the local authority could go in under legislation, refurbish the building and send the bill to Saehan, and it would be a charge on Saehan. Clr. Kilgannon said that the committee was thinking that the council could help lobby for the government to take over the property. "Why can’t Sligo have a Westport House. You have a lake and wooded area and a lot could be done to boost tourism. Can anyone see the government buy it for Sligo and the North West area?" asked Clr. Kilgannon. In relation to Clr. Bree’s comments, Mr. Forkan said the view was that the council would have powers to go in and refurbish the house if the building was going into decay. "I don’t think we have the power to refurbish it in its entirety," said Mr. Forkan, who added that he would have to check the matter. Clr. Bree: "If Saehan is leaving, they might like to leave a few bob behind them." 
