housing
{  
    January 31 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/housing-needs-of-single-men-separated-fathers-returned-emigrants-highlighted-27530571.html }
And although various councillors spoke of more than 900 people being on the housing list, Director of Services Dorothy Clarke pointed out that it was fewer than 700.The council is also to re-examine its housing list, as its believed there may be people on the list who do not actually want housing.The issue of housing for single men was raised by Clr. Joe Queenan, who s And although various councillors spoke of more than 900 people being on the housing list, Director of Services Dorothy Clarke pointed out that it was fewer than 700. The council is also to re-examine its housing list, as it’s believed there may be people on the list who do not actually want housing. The issue of housing for single men was raised by Clr. Joe Queenan, who said that when houses were being allocated, there was one category being left out. It was men, and single men in particular, he pointed out. "I would hope that in the new scheme in the coming year that we factor in units for single people," Clr. Queenan said. He added his understanding was that there were near to 600 than 900 on the housing list. Clr. Gormley: "Either way, it’s high."  Money Clr. Queenan: "No matter what you have here, you want more. There is substantial money put into housing and you can see it all around the county." Clr. Michael Fleming also was of the opinion that there were certain categories of people who did not qualify and he hoped these would not be left out. Clr. Gerard Mullaney said there was definitely a need for single men in rural areas to get local authority housing. He added that separated fathers also had a right to have accommodation so that their children could come and stay with them. Clr. Seamus Kilgannon pointed out the need to cater for single men who had to emigrate in the hungry Fifties and Sixties and for whom things might not have gone as well as hoped. "We should make some effort to accommodate these people when they return," Clr. Kilgannon said, who added that he had the experience of "getting the complete run around" while looking for accommodation for people who came from abroad. Ms. Clarke said the council would like to look at its housing list. She added that single women were treated in the same way as single men. Returning emigrants were "also something we might come back to," she said. Clr. Sean MacManus said he did not think there were enough starts. More and more young couples were finding it extremely difficult to get into the housing market.  List "People are not going to be able to access housing on the open market and consequently they are going to come on the county council list and I think the county council list will be higher than 900," he said. He added: "I think there is a strong case for this council going to the department to seek finance for more than 900 houses to be provided." Clr. Bree said that the council’s Housing Action Plan 2004-2008, as confirmed with the Department of the Environment, allowed the council to provide 493 houses over the lifetime of the plan, an average of 98 houses per year. He noted that the council hoped to complete the construction of 56 new houses in 2007: four in Riverstown, ten in Ballintogher, ten in Tubbercurry, sixteen in Camross, Ballymote, four in Coolaney, two in Carrigeens, four in Grange and six in Culfadda. "I understand that the council will also be purchasing a small number of houses on the open market and that there will be a number of houses becoming available through Part V Acquisitions," Clr. Bree said. However, he added that given that there were in excess of 900 applicants on the council’s housing waiting list, and that the list was growing substantially each year, it was obvious that the housing "crisis was worsening," he claimed. 
