housing
{ Orla O'Sullivan 
    December 09 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/affordable-housing-but-not-as-we-know-it-25883083.html }
The prospect of state subsidised housing without limits on either the applicant's income or the mortgage amount is tantalising yet elusive MANY of us hear 'affordable housing' and assume that it's for the socially disadvantaged. By contrast, the Government's latest initiative sounds like music to the ears of young, working people who feel priced out of the housing market despite making 'good' money. Three weeks ago today, the Government announced that private lenders would start in the New Year to make a type of 'affordable housing' loan for which people on any income could apply. That change plus stamp duty cuts on regular housing, introduced in the Budget, should solve the housing problem, Enviornment Minister Dick Roche said at a press conference earlier this week. Most importantly, private lenders will be able to lend beyond the Government's mortgage loan ceiling of ?165,000 - which doesn't go very far when Dublin house prices average ?333,918 and those outside average ?220,932. Bank of Ireland is the first participating lender announced, with EBS among those to follow, 
Your Money has learnt. The one absolute requirement to get one of these affordable loans is that the applicant would otherwise spend more than 35pc of his after-tax income repaying a mortgage. That's not a stretch for most, especially single borrowers, considering that the average joint working couple spends close to 27pc of their after-tax income repaying their mortgage, according to research by Goodbody Stockbrokers. However, applicants for private sector affordable mortgages must first be pre-approved by their local authorities. Among the mandatory selection criteria (to which each authority may elect to add its own) is that priority be given to applicants on lower incomes. With demand for affordable housing units already outstripping supply, the new arrangements look unlikely to benefit workers on relatively good incomes, who still find houses unaffordable. Asked about this, Noel Ahern, Minister for Housing and Urban Renewal, seemed to open the door on a further increase in supply. It was put to him that the limited benefit of private sector lenders making affordable housing loans might be quicker funding and therefore faster release of existing supply. However, that wouldn't benefit others awaiting an affordable alternative. The Minister replied with reference to the newer type of affordable housing, known as "Part V' to which, theoretically, no income limit applies. It gets its name from part V (five) of the Planning and Development Act 2000-02. "As pre-Part V developments are built out, an increasing number of planning applications will become subject to Part V agreements," he said in a statement. Most of those now on government housing waiting lists are poor families awaiting homes provided by the Government (social housing), not candidates for either partial or full home purchase from the government (affordable housing), the Department says. It's not possible to say exactly how many people are already waiting in line for the 11,000 affordable housing units scheduled to be made available between the New Year and 2007. The latest data shows 72,5000 applicants were assessed for government housing in 2002. Of these, 48,413 came from a waiting list. Only about 11pc of those who purchased affordable housing in the year are thought to have come from the waiting list. Meanwhile, a single person facing Dublin house prices that reached approximately ?334,000 last month, needs to raise approximately ?300,000, after putting 10pc down. Assuming the most generous mortgage available, five times income, that translates to having a salary of ?60,000. The national average wage is about ?33,000, per the latest Central Statistics Office figures (2003). Income-based affordable housing schemes are available to those with no more than ?36,800 in annual income (or ?92,000 for couples). Every singleton earning between the ?36,800 limit and what we might call the required ?60,000 in Dublin is stuck. Yet, as Joe Larkin, managing director of Bank of Ireland Mortgages said at the affordable housing mortgage launch, "It's not just a Dublin issue, it's an urban issue." Housing can be prohibitively expensive also in Galway, Cork and Limerick, he said. 'Part V' of the Planning Act empowers local authorities to require property developers to reserve up to 20pc of the units for which they get building permission as affordable. (That is, they are retained for the government at pre-development cost). BoI's Mr Larkin said that for its affordable Breakthrough mortgage, "The salaries we're looking for are ?27,000 to ?50,000, typically." The Minister said private lenders involvement will free the Government to concentrate on "those most in need. It does not make sense for the Government to provide loans that the market is willing and able to and (that) beneficiaries can afford." In the two and a half years from early 2002, when the first Part V housing units came available, 315 mortgages were made through the then sole lender, the Housing Finance Agency. A further 1,438 were proposed as of last June. A number of mortgage industry commentators, who preferred not to be named, suggested that banks would be the biggest winners from the latest announcement. In Bank of Ireland's case, the loans it makes will be low-risk being up to 97pc loan to (buyer's) cost, but potentially as little as 70pc loan to (market) value because the Government is offering the houses at below market value. Profits will be based on normal mortgage-lending rates, but terms could extend to 35 years. The bank loses nothing in broker commissions, as all the loans will be sold through the branches. 
