housing
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk 
    March 31 2015 07:09 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/knock-down-joe-oreilly-murder-house-and-build-again-victim-rachels-dad-31106751.html }
The three-bedroom yellow bungalow that saw one of Ireland’s most-read murder cases is the cheapest in the area to buy by over €200,000, but victim Rachel Callaly’s father hopes the potential buyer will knock it down.  Lambay View in Naul, north County Dublin is on the market for just €125,000, ten years after convicted killer Joe O’Reilly killed his wife in their bedroom. The house, located on its own 0.7 acre site, has a sea view and is ‘in need of modernisation and upgrading’, according to the property advert. But tragic Rachel Callaly’s father Jim said he’s hoping someone the bargain price will mean someone will knock down the house and start afresh on the site. 
Close
 The house in the Naul, North County Dublin is on the market for €125,000   / 
Close
 Rachel O'Reilly and Joe O'Reilly on their wedding day  / “I would absolutely like to see someone using it again,” Jim told the Irish Daily Star. “It is a fair size site and it would be good to see it being used again. “You can’t see it from the road but there is a dormer window at the rear from which you can have a view of the sea and can see Lambay Island. “My own personal opinion is that I would like to see the house itself knocked and a new home built on the property… the site itself would be ideal for a young family and would make for a perfect home.” 
Close
 Joe O'Reilly was convicted of his wife's murder in 2007 / Nobody has lived at the house since Joe was placed in custody. He and Rachel bought the property in 2003 for around €240,000 and planned to make it their dream home. The mortgage was cleared in 2010 according to Land Registry records. Joe and Rachel are also still listed as the owners, the third since the house was first registered in 1978. Of the properties currently on sale in the area, the yellow bungalow is the cheapest by €225,000. A total of 19 images online show images from both outside and inside the house, including the bedroom in which Rachel O’Reilly lived her final moments. There are also photographs of the kitchen in which Joe O’Reilly once sat and protested his innocence to reporters. In her book ‘Remembering Rachel’, her mother Rose described the moment she discovered her daughter’s body in the married couple’s bedroom. “It could have been an abattoir, there was so much blood spattered everywhere,” she wrote. “I saw blood on the walls, the ceilings, the doors out into the hall and even on the hall ceiling and across the hall into the bathroom. “Rachel was lying in such a horrific state that I will not attempt to describe the scene… but the image of it will haunt me until my dying day,” she wrote. A description of the house on a property website reads: “Lambay View, Baldar, Naul Co. Dublin comprises of a 3 bedroom detached dormer bungalow measuring circa 150 sq m with detached garage (3.85m x 7.5m) on circa 0.7 Acres of mature gardens. The property is in need of modernization and upgrading.” Parking and oil fired central heating are listed as ‘features’ of the property. The property can only be viewed by appointment. Online Editors 
