housing
{ MONDAY MORNINGMatt Gallagher 
    June 15 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/home-builders-are-easy-scapegoats-in-housing-cost-row-25943192.html }
IN any market for goods and services, affordability is a critical factor. This is  particularly so as regards housing, which is a must-have necessity. Restrictive practices are a feature of sectors of the Irish economy, but not the housing market. There are almost 2,000 independent home builders operating in the Irish housing sector and there are no restrictions on people entering the business. Irish home builders have shown a remarkable capacity to respond to changing market conditions by increasing output from 22,500 units in 1992 to a new record of 57,500 units in 2002. The focus of Government intervention in the housing market must be on increasing supply to meet rising demand. Encouraging investors into the housing market serves as an extremely useful function. A modern, globalised economy, as we now have in Ireland, will not function without an effective rental housing sector. The rapid growth in supply and quality of apartments in our cities and large towns is a direct result of investor involvement. Indeed, recent evidence of a weakening in the rental market, particularly in Dublin, is confirmation that concentrating on the supply side is the correct solution. The cost of new housing is of particular concern to builders and the first-time buyers who are finding it difficult entering the market. Home builders are easy scapegoats when the cost of new housing is discussed. There are several factors outside their control which contribute significantly to the cost of housing. An independent survey has estimated that the Government 'take' on a ?250,000 new home is 37pc, or ?92,260. Indeed, in the eight years from 1995-2002 inclusive, the Exchequer collected a total of ?8.5bn in revenue from private house builders. Insurance costs, rising wage levels under national agreements, and general inflation are all pushing up the price of new housing. Many local authorities, for example, are proposing to double their levies in the coming months which will be a direct add-on cost of about ?6,000 per unit. The planning system is bureaucratic, arbitrary and a source of endless unnecessary delays to housing output and indirectly contributes to costs. All of the above deserve strong political action with a view to controlling costs. The single biggest input cost into new housing is the cost of the site. Increasing the supply of zoned and serviced land is critical to stabilising house prices. Trying to control the market through legislation is not likely to be very successful. The focus of attention should be on creating an effective market in serviced to sites. Land rezoned for housing should be serviced promptly. Local authorities should bring service sites to the marketplace using their own resources and/or in partnership with the private sector. Increasing the supply of serviced sites and creating an effective market in this area will benefit house builders and house buyers alike. Containing site costs by increasing the supply of serviced sites should be part of an effective strategy to temper the rising cost of new housing. Going forward, builders can also contribute to controlling the price of new housing by putting an emphasis on site management, effective cost control mechanisms, a willingness to embrace new construction technologies, materials and methods. As regards social and affordable housing, the IHBA also believes that the focus must be on increasing supply of this type of housing. The IHBA is anxious to be an effective partner with local and national Government in this area. I hope that guidelines of the 2002 Act will show flexibility and parity among the various options. There are a number of schemes already in operation which are delivering an increased amount of low cost quality housing for Dublin City Council and Fingal County Council. Using local authority land banks and partnership arrangements with house builders, I am confident that the Government's annual target for social and affordable housing could be exceeded in the years ahead. Irish home builders will respond positively to new initiatives from local and national Government in this area. In the private sector, affordability of rental accommodation is related to income levels. Affordability for an owner/occupier is related to the size of mortgage, income levels and interest rates. When all these factors relating to housing affordability are taken into account, the evidence suggests that affordability has not changed dramatically over the last ten years. In the short to medium term, interest rates in the eurozone will remain low and there is now an opportunity to fix interest rates at very attractive levels. First-time buyers, in particular, could be facilitated in entering the market by financial institutions granting 30-40 year loans. Matt Gallagher is chairman of the Irish Home Builders Association 
