housing
{ Esther HAYDEN 
    July 09 2010 08:34 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/news/house-for-sex-offenders-family-set-on-fire-27636051.html }
PROTESTORS have blasted those responsible for setting alight a house in Ashford that was earmarked to house the family of a convicted sex offender. Mass demonstrations had taken place outside the home when locals learnt that Wicklow County Council were going to move the man's family into the estate. On Sunday night the house went up in flames in what appears to have been a deliberate act. People involved in vigils outside the home had to race to a neighbouring house and remove an elderly lady from the premises for fear the blaze would spread. Meanwhile, questions are being asked of how the council is handling the situation following protests outside the same Ashford home on Friday. The young children of the sex offender were transported to the house in a council van and witnessed the demonstrations. FOUR ATTEMPTS to rehouse a Wicklow sex offender and his family in four separate areas have failed because of local protests. At Monday's meeting of Wicklow County Council members spent almost an hour discussing the problem after more than 100 people staged a protest outside County Buildings. The protests took a sinister turn on Sunday evening when a house in Woodview, Ashford, where the council were trying to house the family was set alight. Cllr. Conal Kavanagh condemned the burning of the house saying it had put the people living in the neighbouring houses in grave danger. 'I spoke to the neighbours this morning and it was a terrible experience for them particularly for one elderly lady.' He proposed that the council housing policy should 'exclude people with a conviction for a sexual offence and those who consort with people with a sexual conviction' and this was seconded by party colleague, Jimmy O'Shaughnessy. Cllr. Nicky Kelly said he could understand the anger of the residents who 'feel the individual is being foisted on them'. He proposed that the councillors should be given ten days notice of any transfers or allocations to the council's housing stock. 'In the past ten days this has evolved to a situation, where dare I say it, where this family is probably unhousable in County Wicklow. It is not nice to say it and it is far from an ideal situation.' He said the HSE needed to get involved in the case particularly in relation 'to the health and welfare of the children and the woman involved'. 'Whether in a rural or urban setting there are going to be neighbours and it is impossible to house this woman and her children.' Cllr. Kelly's proposal was seconded by Cllr. Pat Casey. Cllr. O'Shaughnessy said the council had tried to house the family in Rathnew, Kilcoole, Redcross and now Ashford. He condemned the burning of the house and said the protest had been peaceful until then and said 'an 82-year-old woman could have been fatally burned'. Cllr. Pat Doran said he was 'very annoyed' that he hadn't been told the council were attempting to buy a house in Redcross to house the man and his family. He also slammed the decision to try move the man from one area to the next. He also supported Cllr. Kelly's proposal. Cllr. John Brady said 'the council has been appalling. It appears as if the family has been attempted to be moved on in every community in the hopes that one community might let them slip in unnoticed'. Like Cllr. Harris he 'condemned the actions in Ashford but I understand the frustration and anger of the people'. Cllr. Vincent Blake said it was very regrettable 'to have a situation where children are being moved from location to location'. Director of Services Mike Nicholson said the council had a housing allocation policy which they adhered to. This policy, he said, had been agreed to by the members. As he was speaking to the members some of the protesters including young children walked into the council chamber to listen to him. He said people could apply for transfers and in that situation the council carried out a number of checks including garda checks and if necessary liaised with social workers. 'In this particular case a family had been living apart in Wicklow town and we worked in close contact with the HSE. This particular man's conviction was from 18 years ago and he has a clean record since then. At that time he was given a six-month suspended sentence. He underwent an assessment with the Granada Institute who felt he was in the low risk category which is the lowest category. We are all in the low risk category. It was felt the family was living dysfunctionally and a transfer to keep them together would be good. 'They were given a house in Rathnew and we went ahead with the allocation and on that Friday evening there was an angry mob there. We then tried to move them to a house in Kilcoole on the following Tuesday and couldn't house them there either. 'On the suggestion of a councillor we attempted to move them to a rural area so we looked at a few houses but that didn't work either. It was then suggested that she (the man's partner) wasn't the problem and he was so we tried to house her on her own. 'But we discovered the real problem was the whole family. I would condemn the burning of the house. It is a despicable act. I never thought I would see the day of mob rule. I never thought I would see the day where housing policy was determined by an angry mob. I find the whole thing distasteful.' The motions of Cllr. Kavanagh and Cllr. Kelly were carried unanimously and the members were informed that the decision to exclude people with a sexual conviction would have to get ministerial approval. Cllr. Cullen said he wanted the spirit of Cllr. Kavanagh's motion to be respected while the council were awaiting a decision from the Minister but county manager, Eddie Sheehy, said the council is 'obliged to implement the policy currently in force.' 
