housing
{ Pól Ó Conghaile 
    March 12 2015 06:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/travel/travel-news/article31058614.ece }
McKennas' Guides has published its 100 Best Places to Stay in Ireland, with some fascinating inclusions... and exclusions. The influential guide features 12 new entries this year, ranging from Dublin’s five-star Marker Hotel to Glencarrig Farmhouse B&B on Co. Clare’s Loop Head peninsula. Ard Na Sidhe in Co. Kerry – recently voted one of the world’s best affordable places to stay by Condé Nast Traveler - also makes the cut for the first time. Cork City’s River Lee Hotel is new to the list for this year, as are the Bridge House and Lis-Ardagh Lodge in West Cork, The White Cottages in Skerries, Co. Dublin, Milltown House in Dingle, Léim Siar in Belmullet and the Blue Book’s Newforge House in Co. Armagh. Galway gets two new entries - The Huntsman Inn and The Stop B&B. One of the big features of the guide is its affordability and focus on small business. Just four five-star hotels make the cut, for example, and rooms at Glencarrig and The Stop are currently listed from just €32.50pp and €35pp respectively. None of Ashford Castle, Sheen Falls Lodge, The Merrion Hotel or Adare Manor make the 100 Best list, despite winning numerous international accolades (all four featured in Condé Nast Traveler's most recent list of the Top 15 hotels in Ireland). Harvey’s Point in Donegal – recently voted TripAdvisor’s No.1 hotel in Ireland for the third year running - is also conspicuous by its absence. 
 
Close
 The Marker Hotel rooftop bar / "I respect things done well at the five-star level," said John McKenna. "But the STAY 2015 app is aimed at people coming into Ireland for a holiday, and what we've learned over the years is that they want to meet the owner... It's about an intimate, homegrown experience, about feeling that you are in somebody's home - that's what visitors to Ireland are looking for." "Ultimately it has to be places I want to stay," he added. Cork accounts for more than a fifth of all entries, with 21 in total. Co. Carlow Kilgraney Country House, Bagenalstown Step House Hotel, Main Street, Borris Co. Cavan MacNean Townhouse, Blacklion The Olde Post Inn, Cloverhill, Butler’s Bridge Co. Clare Glencarrig Farmhouse B&B, Carrigaholt [NEW] Gregan’s Castle, Ballyvaughan Hotel Doolin, Doolin Moy House, Lahinch Sheedy’s, Lisdoonvarna Stella Maris, O’Connell Street, Kilkee Vaughan Lodge Hotel, Lahinch Wild Honey Inn, Kincora Road, Lisdoonvarna Co. Cork Ballinterry House, Rathcormac, Fermoy Ballymaloe House, Shanagarry Ballyvolane House, Castlelyons, Fermoy Blindgate House,  Kinsale Bridge House, Skibbereen [NEW] Fortview House, Goleen Gallán Mór, Durrus Garnish House, Cork City Glebe Country House, Ballinadee, Bandon The Glen, Kilbrittain Gort na nain Farm Vegetarian Guesthouse, Nohoval Gougane Barra Hotel, Macroom Grove House, Schull Inchydoney Island Lodge & Spa, Clonakilty Knockeven, Cobh Lancaster Lodge, Cork City Lis-Ardagh Lodge, Union Hall [NEW] Newtown House, Kinsalebeg, Youghal Rolf’s Country House, Baltimore Hill, Baltimore River Lee Hotel, Cork [NEW] Sea View House Hotel, Ballylickey Co. Donegal Castle Murray House Hotel, Dunkineely The Glen House, Clonmany The Mill Restaurant, Dunfanaghy Rathmullan House, Rathmullan Co. Dublin Aberdeen Lodge, Ballsbridge Ariel House, Lansdowne Road Brooks Hotel, Drury Street Kelly’s Hotel, South Great George’s Street The Marker Hotel, Grand Canal Square [NEW] Number 31, Lower Leeson Street Pembroke Town House, Ballsbridge [NEW] The White Cottages, Skerries [NEW] Co. Galway Angler’s Return, Roundstone Ballynahinch Castle, Connemara Connemara Coast Hotel, Furbo Dolphin Beach, Clifden The Heron’s Rest, Galway The House Hotel, Galway The Huntsman Inn, Galway [NEW] Inis Meáin Suites, Inis Meáin, Aran Islands Kilmurvey House, Inis Mór, Aran Islands Lough Inagh Lodge, Recess The Quay House, Clifden Renvyle House, Connemara Sea Mist House, Clifden The Stop B&B, Galway [NEW] The Twelve Hotel, Barna Co. Kerry Ard na Sidhe, Killorglin [NEW] Brook Lane Hotel, Kenmare Castlewood House, Dingle Emlagh House, Dingle Heaton’s House & Restaurant, Dingle Hotel Europe, Fossa, Killarney The Killarney Park Hotel, Killarney Milltown House, Dingle [NEW] QC’S, Cahersiveen, Ring of Kerry The Ross, Town Centre, Killarney Shelburne Lodge, Kenmare Co. Laois Ivyleigh House, Portlaoise Roundwood House, Mountrath Co. Limerick The Mustard Seed, Echo Lodge, Ballingarry Number One Pery Square, Limerick Co. Longford Viewmount House, Longford Co. Louth Ghan House, Carlingford Co. Mayo Bervie, Keel,  Achill Island Knockranny House, Westport Léim Siar, Blacksod, Belmullet [NEW] Mulranny Park Hotel, Mulranny, Westport Stella Maris, Ballycastle Co. Sligo Coopershill House, Riverstown Co. Tipperary Inch House, Thurles The Old Convent, Clogheen Co. Waterford Cliff House Hotel, Ardmore Glasha Farmhouse, Ballymacarbry Richmond House, Cappoquin The Tannery Restaurant, Dungarvan Co. Westmeath Lough Bishop House, Colinstown Wineport Lodge, Glassan, Athlone Co. Wexford Kelly’s Resort Hotel, Rosslare Monart, Enniscorthy Co. Wicklow Ballyknocken House, Ashford The Brook Lodge, Macreddin Village, Aughrim Northern Ireland Beech Hill House Hotel, Derry The Carriage House, Dundrum Dufferin Coaching Inn, Killyleagh Marlagh Lodge, Ballymena Newforge House, Armagh [NEW] 
 
Close
 Twilight at Ard na Sidhe, Co. Kerry / The 100 Best guides, compiled by influential food writers and publishers John and Sally McKenna, were published in app format - along with a guide on where to eat and stay on the Wild Atlantic Way - this week. The apps are produced together with DCU’s School of Communications via the Enterprise Ireland knowledge partnership scheme, and include GPS and links to social media and websites for the establishments listed. They are available on iTunes and Google Play at €2.99 each. Read more: Online Editors 
