housing
{  
    November 23 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/council-lines-up-array-of-social-housing-options-27052765.html }
TEN houses and three serviced sites have already been handed over by North Cork developers to Cork County Council and contracts are in place for a further 70 houses and seven sites, it has emerged.Additionally, 122 houses are coming on stream in the context of agreements in principle between the council and developers working on schemes in progress.On top of this  bec TEN houses and three serviced sites have already been handed over by North Cork developers to Cork County Council and contracts are in place for a further 70 houses and seven sites, it has emerged. Additionally, 122 houses are coming on stream in the context of agreements in principle between the council and developers working on schemes in progress. On top of this – because developers can give cash in lieu – a sum of ?621,879.05 has been received in financial contributions for Part V – the planning condition requiring developers to give 20% of their development to the relevant authority to meet the chronic social housing need – from January 2005 to October 2006. The full up-to-date situation was detailed at a meeting last Monday of the Northern Committee of Cork County Council, where it was revealed that weekly meetings were taking place between the dedicated council Part V officer and the Estates and Development and Housing Departments. The Part V officer then meets with the developers and agrees, in principle, a set-aside. If agreement cannot be reached, an arbitrator may be appointed. Once planning has been granted, the quantity surveyor is advised to negotiate and agree prices for units or land or to determine the financial contribution. The 20% can be made up through actual houses, sites or land – on site or off site – financial contribution, or a mixture of all of the above. Deals completed have yielded three houses at Highfield Drive in Newtownshandrum, one house and a financial contribution at Curragh in Kanturk, two houses and a financial contribution at Sliabh Alainn in Mitchelstown, a financial contribution at Cois Coillte in Kilworth, four houses at Ard An Bothair, Glanworth, three sites at Newtownshandrum, and financial contributions from developers at Rathgoggin in Charleville, Rathcormac (Leahy’s), Greenane in Kanturk and Rathcormac (Gallagher and O’Driscoll). The developments where contracts are in place and where the keys will be handed over this year and next include six houses at Newberry Green, Dromahane, one site at Hospital Hill, Kanturk, six sites at Cois Coillte in Kilworth, three houses at Main Street, Kilworth, 39 houses at Knockauduff in Rathcormac, 16 houses at Broghill South, The Pastures, Love Lane, Charleville, three houses at Clancy Tce, Charleville, two houses at Pairc Na Nean, Rathcormac and one house from Manor Mills, Rathcormac. There was widespread welcome for the houses and sites that this legislation is yielding. Divisional manager Tim Lucey stressed that the council is always aiming to obtain housing; agreements on cash contributions can be made, but the council will always push for housing. Any cash payments agreed go directly towards housing provision elsewhere in the division, he confirmed. Agreements in principle are in place for nine houses and a financial contribution from McDonovan Developments in Charleville, 11 houses and cash from Carraig Beag Developments in Millstreet, cash from Cronin’s in Millstreet, one house and cash from LPP Ltd in Newmarket and six houses and cash from Denis Myers at Kildorrery. Further agreements in principle should yield a cash contribution from Chieftain Construction in Conna, 19 houses from Paul Murphy in Buttevant, two houses and cash from Greendale Construction in Charleville, a transfer of land from Rockspring Development in Mitchelstown, 12 houses and cash from Brompton Homes in Ballyhooly, six houses from Blue Rock Properties in Charleville, houses and an undecided number of houses from Keary’s and O’Callaghan’s in Kanturk, cash from Ridge Developments in Mitchelstown, one house and cash from SBS Partnership in Bweeng, two houses and cash from Dalepool in Fermoy, cash from Cronin’s in Millstreet, five houses and cash from Sorenson in Bweeng and six houses and cash from Ballyhooly Housing Development. Also agreed in principle are a house and cash from Devaney’s in Mitchelstown, six houses from Myer’s in Kildorrery, 15 houses from Chieftain Construction in Bweeng, seven houses and cash from Carriganima Construction in Kanturk, four houses and cash from DTF Developments in Kildorrery, nine houses and cash from Carraig Beag Developments in Millstreet and five houses and cash from Carraig Beag Developments. 
