housing
{  
    April 27 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/localnotes/planning-in-fingal-27784082.html }
FINGAL COUNTY COUNCILPLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 14/04/00Serco Services, Unit 30 Airways Industrial Estate, Clonshaugh, Dublin 17,...  FINGAL COUNTY COUNCIL PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 14/04/00 Serco Services, Unit 30 Airways Industrial Estate, Clonshaugh, Dublin 17, to retain carpark and reception area and construct new entrance porch at Unit 30 Airways Industrial Estate, Clonshaugh, Dublin 17. Henry Tolan, North Beach, Rush, Co. Dublin, for retention and completion of bungalow, garage and biocycle system at North Beach, Rush, Co. Dublin. Mr. T. Keegan, 70 Orlynn Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for alterations to previously approved dwelling (registration reference no. F98A/0401) comprising changes to internal layout, additional floor area of 7.6 sq.m., changes to elevation and new single storey shed at Milverton, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Mr. S. Donnelly, Irishtown, Gormanstown, Co. Meath, for restoration and re-thatching of Bremore Cottage and the building of 8 apartments in 2 blocks of 4 with restaurant/ tea rooms and 18 no. bedroom guest house at site adjoining Bremore Cottage., Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. C. & A. Harford, Kenure Park, Rush, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and biocycle treatment unit off Quay Road, Handpark, Rush, Co. Dublin. Paul and Sonya Mitchell, 1 The Avenue, Melrose Park, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin, for double storey granny flat to side, and drive in access at side of no. 1 The Avenue at 1 The Avenue, Melrose Park, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. L. Williams, 23 Castle Downs Road, Seabury, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for construction of a two storey plus attic room detached dwelling and detached garage at site No. 13 Auburn, Malahide, Co.Dublin. G. Nolan, Park Avenue, Streamstown, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 18 detached houses with garages and sewage treatment plants at Park Avenue, Streamstown, Malahide, Co. Dublin. B. & S. Evenden, 2 Sutton Downs, Bayside, Dublin 13, to demolish existing house and the erection of 3 duplex units consisting of 3 no. 2 bed apartments at lower ground floor and 3 no. 3 bed houses above at 2 Sutton Downs, Bayside, Dublin 13. Dundalk Freight Co. Ltd., 81 Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13, to subdivide warehouse to change part of warehouse to use at 81 Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13. Susan Moore, Ballough, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for revisions to approved plans (Plan Reg. No. F98A/0464) for dormer bungalow with biocycle unit at Ballough, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Ms. Deirdre Connolly, South Shore Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for new dormer bungalow to rere of existing dwelling and shared driveway at White House, South Shore Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. John and Margaret Coughlan, "Carrick", Claremont Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission to erect two 2 storey detached houses with shared existing entrance and to demolish existing house at Carrick, Claremont Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Woodford Developments Limited, on behalf of St. Joseph's Housing Co-operative, 37 Wexford Street, Dublin 2, for residential development, comprising 111 no. apartments 1, 2 and 3 bedroom types, in three and four storey blocks plus 10 no. two bedroom Duplex Apartments over 10 no. one bedroom single storey apartments. The overall site area is approx. 1.54 Ha (3.8 acres). The development also includes an access road, footpath, car parking, amenity spaces, associated underground services and it forms part of an overall development at Santry Demesne for which separate planning permission has already been granted (Ref. F98A/1328, PL06F 112730) at Santry Avenue, Dublin 9. Swords Leisure Centre Ltd., (Declan Kelly) Main Street, Swords, Co. Dublin, for change of use of ground floor from snooker/leisure centre to restaurant and takeaway sales of hot food for consumption on the off the premises, office accommodation at existing 1st floor, provision of new office accommodation and roof terraces at 2nd floor with new 3 storey extension to provide retail and office accommodation to rear at 17 Main Street, Swords, Co. Dublin. Barleyfield Construction, Barleyfield House, Hayestown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for demolition of existing dwelling and erection of 8 dormer bungalows and eleven 2 story dwellings at Sandy Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Jimmy and Caroline O'Hara, 59 Longstone Park, Portrane, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for outline permission for dormer bungalow and waste water treatment system at Coldwinters, Ballboughal, Co. Dublin. David Daly, The Gables, Torquay Road, Foxrock, Dublin 18, for two 2-storey office blocks of 2964 sq.m. each and one two-storey office block of 3827 sq.m. with ground and undercroft car parking and associated site works on 4.62 acre site at Airside Business Park, Crowcastle, Swords, Co. Dublin. P. Casey, 65 Craoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for driveway and double gates to front at 65 Craoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Dermot and Helena Molphy, 31 Carrickhill Heights, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for porch extension to the front and conversion of part of the house to a granny flat at 31 Carrickhill Heights, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Richard Shiels, "Odin", Nashville Park, Howth, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension and alterations to existing bungalows at "Odin", Nashville Park, Howth, Co. Dublin. Anthony McKenna, 3 Connolly Crescent, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin, for kitchen/diningroom extension at rear and bathroom extension at side at 3 Connolly Crescent, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. H. Cranny & N. Williams, 3 Turnapin Cottages, Cloghran, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension consisting of kitchen, livingroom, utility and toilet to the rear at 3 Turnapin Cottages, Cloghran, Co. Dublin. Patrick Fitsimons, Pebble Mill, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin, for two-storey extension to the side of existing dwelling house containing two bedrooms and conservatory at Pebble Mill, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. Mr. M. J. O'Connor, 65 Portmarnock Crescent, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for 1st floor extension to side including new bedroom and shower at 65 Portmarnock Crescent, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Mr. John Gill, "Highgrove House", Clonmeton, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for conversion of attached garage to games room with playroom over and retention of 3 dormers to existing structure together with construction of detached single garage at 5 Clara Court, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Kenny, 10 Carrickbrack Heath, Sutton, Dublin 13, for conversion of garage with new roof over single storey extension to rear and refurbishment of front elevation at 10 Carrickbrack Heath, Sutton, Dublin 13. Bertie & Mary McGuirk, 9 Strandmill Avenue, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for lean-to extension to living room, porch and garage, with bedroom extension over garage at 9 Strandmill Avenue, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Declan Gafney, Fenor, Ardrath, Co. Meath, for single storey extensions to existing house with new hipped roof and ancillary roof lights at "Inchville House", Inchville, Balrothery, Co. Dublin. J. O'Rourke, 145 Broadmeadow, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to the front, a single storey extension to the rear and ancillary work at 145 Broadmeadows, Swords, Co. Dublin. Sharon O'Buachalla, 12 Herbert Park, Dublin 4, to construct an extension with floor level below ground level to side of dwelling at Tigin, Quay Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Maurice Murphy, 46 Blackberry Rise, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to front room and porch with pitched roof at 46 Blackberry Rise, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. R. O'Grady, 1 Berwick Walk, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey side and rear extension at 1 Berwick Walk, Swords, Co. Dublin. J. Sheehan, Skerries Road, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for single storey and first floor extension to rere and minor alterations to side elevation at 3 Skerries Road, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. P. Kettle, The Rolestown Inn, Lispopple, Swords, Co. Dublin, to erect an extension to the lounge area of the existing licensed premises, new entrance porches and revised front elevation, new toilet areas, kitchen, entrance lobby to the first floor additional cold room, refurbishment of existing bars/small lounge and extension into the existing residential area, the construction of a function room building, lobby, toilets and entrance porch on the ground floor, and a lounge area, small function room, restaurant, kitchen, toilets and staff areas, 14 bedrooms with en-suite bathrooms, residents lounge, administration office and store over function room on the first floor, revised and extended car parking layout, new stone front boundary wall and entrance, signage, site landscaping and the installation of an approved sewerage treatment plant at Rolestown Inn, Lispopple, Swords, Co. Dublin. Thomas G. McGrath, Woodview, Church Avenue, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, to erect a detached dormer dwelling to include entrance gates and front walling at St. Declans', Church Avenue, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. T. Parle, Redgarth, Coast Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for erection of a new two storey dwelling house and the demolition of existing dwelling house at Redgarth, Coast Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. Sean Nolan, St. Catherines, Burrow Road, Portrane, Co. Dublin, for erection of dormer bungalow and new entrance at Healy's Lane, Portrane, Co. Dublin. Edward Gaffney, Coachroad, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to demolish out buildings, renovate and extend existing cottage install new septic tank and percolation area to site at Courtlough, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Overstone Ltd., 59 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, for 92 no duplex apartments and 164 no. two three, four and five bedroom houses in 2/3 storeys representing Phase 2 of an overall residential development in accordance with an Action Plan for the area at Fosterstown North, Swords, Co. Dublin. Barry Moore, 5 Brookfield Park, Rush, Co. Dublin, to construct two storey extension to the side incorporating new kitchen, dining room, utility room and bedroom at ground floor and two bedrooms over also entrance gate to side at 5 Brookfield Park, Rush, Co. Dublin.  LIST OF DECISIONS MADE: Decisions to GRANT APPROVAL were made in respect of the following applications: Graham White, "Ashlea", Hazlebrook, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for approval for a 4 bedroomed 2 storey house and detached garage with a biocycle effluent treatment plant on site adjacent to Ashlea, Hazelbrook, Old Portmarnock at Ashlea, Hazelbrook, Malahide, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to GRANT PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Mary Hamilton, Bealinstown, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for extension to side and rear incorporating minor facade treatment to existing cottage together with re-location of existing vehicular access on site at Bealinstown, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin. Aer Lingus Facilities Engineer, Services Annex, Dublin Airport, Co. Dublin, for retention of 2 no. portacabin units for office/classroom accommodation adjacent Aer Lingus Head Office Building, West Link Road, Dublin Airport. Aer Lingus Faciities Engineer, Services Annex, Dublin Airport, Co. Dublin, for retention of portacabin unit for office accommodation adjacent Aer Lingus T.A.S.C. Building, Corballis Road North, Dublin Airport. Dr. Sam Naser, 16A Greenfield Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, for change of use of two ground floor reception rooms from residential to use as doctor's surgery and waiting roo, at 179 Howth Road, Sutton, Dublin 13. N.and C. Gorman, Howth Hill Lodge Nursing Home, Thormanby Road, Howth, for alterations and extension including additional floor over part of existing building at Howth Hill Lodge Nursing Home, Thormanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Keely Group, Unit 37, Grange Parade, Baldoyle Ind. Est., Dublin 13, for extension of warehouse to rear at Unit 37 Grange Parade, Baldoyle Industrial Est., Dublin 13. Ms. Helen Grant, 16 Kenure Park, Rush, Co. Dublin, for bungalow at Walshes Lane, off Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Barry Hill, c/o Mr. Dargan, Killeek Lane, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for extension to rear of existing cottage with a new dormer roof comprising of two bedrooms and ensuites with dormer windows to rear also for internal changes to existing cottage and for a new biocycle unit at Ballymadun, Garristown, Co. Dublin. John and Jacinta, Newtown, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for retention of new biocycle unit to replace old septic tank at Newtown, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. L'Arche Community, 10 Warrenhouse Road, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for alterations and rear single storey extension, and change of use from dwelling to residential home at 10 Warrenhouse Road, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. Camillus Archer, Sandyhills, South Shore Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for 5 no. houses in 2 no. blocks at site at Seatown Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Sean & Chris Murray, 14 Grove Lawn, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for proposed new entrance porch, new balcony to rear to first floor level, renovation to existing attic space, reduction in size of garage, incorporating new pitched roof at rear at 14 Grove Lawn, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. Sean Fagan, 7 Limetree Ave., Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for new single storey granny flat to existing dwelling at 7 Limetree Avenue, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Mr. and Mrs. Malachy MacLoughlin, 17 Shielmartin Drive, Sutton, Co. Dublin, to retain garage conversion and porch and to erect new conservatory extension to rear at 17 Shielmartin Drive, Sutton, Co. Dublin. Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Bryce, 'Clanrye', 138 Dublin Road, Sutton Cross, Dublin 13, for single storey domestic extension to the rear, redesign of rear roof, a new replacement garage and alterations 'Clanrye', 138 Dublin Road, Sutton Cross, Dublin 13, Patrick Cronin, 'Toureen', Damastown, Naul, Co. Dublin, for conversion of existing garage roof from flat to pitched at 'Toureen', Damastown, Naul, Co. Dublin. Mr. and Mrs. Aiden Fitzmaurice, 16 St. Fintan's Crescent, Howth, Co. Dublin, for erection of a timber conservatory at 16 St. Fintans Crescent, Howth, Co. Dublin. Mr. and Mrs. J. Darcy, 19 Oakwood Avenue, Rathbeale, Swords, Co. Dublin, for erection of a porch to front of dwelling at 19 Oakwood Avenue, Rathbeale, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr and Mrs. Brennan, 167 Hampton Cove, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for garage conversion with new pitched tiled roof to existing side entension at 167 Hampton Cove, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. C. McDonald, 14 Knightswood Park, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for first floor extension to front and side, and alterations at 14 Knightswood Park, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Mr. R. Jones, 3 Bailey Green, Howth, Co. Dublin, to to construct a dormer window and entrance porch to front of house at 3 Bailey Green, Howth, Co. Dublin. Anne Byrne, 20A The Square, Skerries, Co. Dublin, to to carry out renovations and raise existing ridge line at 20A The Square, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Mr. and Mrs. Declan Peppard, 6 Knightshill, Old Coach Road, Balrothery, Co. Dublin, for retention of dormer window, alteration to roof detail over bay windows and other minor alterations at 6 Knightshill, Old Coach Road, Balrothery, Co. Dublin. Kevin and Patricia McKeon, 19 Moyclare Close, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for front porch and side garage at 19 Moyclare Close, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. Derek and Ita McKittrick, 63 Chapel Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension to side and single storey extension to front and back at 63 Chapel Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin. John and Sinead McCarthy, 'Minawn', Church Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for [A] Demolition of existing garage; [B] Erection of single storey extension at side and single storey extension to rear of existing house; [C] Erection of porch to front of house; [D] Retention of existing dormer window and [E] 2 new velux rooflights to existing attic store at 'Minawn', Church Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. John and Sheila Roche,The Cottage, Drumnigh, Old Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for retention of two conservatories at rear at The Cottage, Drumnigh, Old Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Joan Maher, 19 Bayside Square East, Dublin 13, for proposed extension consisting of new kitchen and toilet, totalling an area of 13.9 sq.m of single storey construction at 19 Bayside Square East, Dublin 13. M. Plunkett, 7A Sherlock Terrace, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for new extension to front of existing dwelling at 7A Sherlock Terrace, Skerries, Co. Dublin. T. & M. Redmond, Spring Cottage, Shallon Lane, The Ward, Co. Dublin, for extension to side at Spring Cottage, Shallon Lane, The Ward, Co. Dublin. Paul Sutton, Broughan, The Ward, Co. Dublin, for alterations to existing planning permission for an extension to side of dormer bungalow at Broughan, The Ward, Co. Dublin. High Degree Construction, Easton House, Easton Road, Leixlip, Co. Kildare, for 3 storey office development with underground car parking, boiler house, surface car parking, boiler house, E.S.B. sub-station with electric switch room, sculpture, biocycle treatment system and percolation area and new access at Airport Business Park, Cloghran, Co. Dublin. C. Brophy, 1 Racecourse Common, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for retention of extension to front of house at 1 Racecourse Common, Lusk, Co. Dublin.  Requests for CLARIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications: Margaret Barrett, Skidoo, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for erection of two dormer bungalows, two domestic garages and two septic tanks at Skidoo, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin.  Requests for ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications: Michael and Evelyn Kenna, 22 Ard na Mara, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for single storey bungalow and exit adjoining at 22 Ard na Mara, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Anthony Pyne, 14 Bremore Cottages, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to erect granny flat type extension to rear of dwelling and including provision of bay window and extension to side of existing dwelling at 14 Bremore Cottages, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to REFUSE OUTLINE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Mr. William Condron, Tyrrelstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission is sought for 4 bedroomed single storey dwelling house and biocycle unit at Tyrrelstown Big Townland, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Child Evangelism Fellowship of Ireland, 175 Templemore Ave., Belfast BT5 4FR, for outreach Centre comprising Dormitory and Facilities Blocks, Sports/Meeting Hall, Wardens House, Playing Pitch, Car Parking and a Bio-cycle Sewerage Treatment System at Hearse Road, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Rosalind Houlihan, c/o P.J. Flanagan and Co., Solicitors, The Square, Kildare, to to erect family dwelling-house and install Balmoral type septic tank with perculation area and to reposition and recess existing site entrance at Balcultry Lane, The Leas, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. Owen Fitzsimons, 10 Milford, Old Yellow Walls Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 250 sq.m. 2-storey house at Mooretown/Oldtown, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to REFUSE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: J.and C. Harford, St. Pauls, Lower Main St., Rush, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing house and construct 4 new apartments in one two storey block at Convent Lane, Rush, Co. Dublin. Noonan Construction Ltd., 13 Mellifont Avenue, Dun Laoghaire, Co. Dublin, for three single storey dwellings designed for persons with reduced mobility/wheelchair users at Hampton Place, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Vincent McNally, Pillar House, Naul, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing dwelling house and replace with a new 2 storey house with connections to existing main sewerage and water at Naul, Co. Dublin. T. and A. Flood, 3 Templeville Ave., Templeogue, Dublin 6W, for construction of 8 no. detached two storey dwellings comprising 2 different house types [all with separate garages] and for associated site works comprising a new carriageway, driveways, walls, post and rail timber fencing, drainage and waste water treatment systems at Rowlestown, Swords, Co. Dublin. Colm and Patsy Jones, Howth View, Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for erection of replacement two-storey dwelling at Howth View, Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. P.T. Developments, 1 Bancroft Downs, Bancroft, Dublin 24, for variations to approved plans Reg. Ref. F98A/0399 [to demolish existing house and construct 4 apartments], to construct an additional floor with penthouse apartment at Iona, South Strand/Mannings Opening, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Rolestown Developments Ltd, c/o Lennon Heather and Co. Solicitors City Quay House, City Quay, Dublin 2, for demolition of the existing dwelling house and construction of 9 no. two storey detached dwelling houses with a waste treatment system and associated siteworks at Kilossery, Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin. Mr. John Whyte, 7 Talbot Park, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for first floor extension to side at 7 Talbot Park, Malahide, Co. Dublin. D. Loughman, 39 Knockabawn, Quay Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for extension to house at 39 Knockabawn, Quay Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Agnes McNally, Killougher, Ring Commons, Naul, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow, detached garage, also biocycle waste water treatment unit at Coolfores, Reynoldstown, Naul, Co. Dublin. D. & K. Leonard, Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for demolition of existing glasshouses and side extension to existing bungalow, relocation of vehicle entrance, construction of two new two storey houses at Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to GRANT PERMISSION AND REFUSE PERMISSION (SPLIT DECISION) were made in respect of the following application: E. Barry, 15 James McCormack Gardens, Baldoyle, for revised rear single storey extension and new vehicular access from Strand Road at 15 James McCormack Gardens, Baldoyle Requests for Site Notice in accordance with Article 16 of the Local Government (Planning and Development) Regulations 1994 were made in respect of the following applications:- P.T. Developments, 1 Bancroft Down, Bancroft, Dublin 24, for four bedroom bungalow with site walls, car parking, paving and site works on site with vehicular access at site at rear of 17 Sandy Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Island Associates Limited, 14 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, for 5 number single MV-LT sub stations and consumer room at Swords Business Campus, Balheary Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Keelco Ltd., Unit 12 Donabate Town Centre, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for retention of the first floor office units no. 12, 13, 14 and 15 at Donabate Shopping Centre, Ballalease West, Portrane Road, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Mr. Dennis Joseph Heery, Baldwinstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin, to to construct a bay window extension to existing dwelling at Baldwinstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin.  Requests for TIME EXTENSIONS: Leo and Noreen Groome, 10 St. Catherines Drive, Rush, Co. Dublin, for single storey dwelling with Biocycle waste water treatment system at Piercetown, Skerries  The following applications were WITHDRAWN: The following application was WITHDRAWN: David Grant, Harp Inn, North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin, for alterations to a previously approved development, reg. ref. F98A/0206. The alterations to include the relocation of the E.S.B. sub-station to the Seatown Villas facade, the inclusion of an external fire escape stairs and doors, the minor increase in the ridge height at Seatown Villas and North Street, and the consequential changes to the elevations at The Harp Inn, North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin.  DECISIONS OF AN BORD PLEANALA: APPEAL DECISION: Appeal Withdrawn COUNCILS DECISION: GRANT PERMISSION LOCATION: 17 Bridge Street, Quay Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Demolition of the existing building to reinstate with a 3-storey building in part. The building will comprise of 2 No. of shops on the ground floor offices and 1 apartment in the first floor and two No. of apartments on the second floor, making a total of 3 No. 1 bedroom apartments at 17 Bridge Street, fronting on to Quay Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. APPLICANT: Main Street Coffee Company APPEAL DECISION: To Amend Condition(s) COUNCILS DECISION: GRANT PERMISSION LOCATION: Plot No. 25, lands at Auburn House, Abington, Malahide, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: construction of a large 2 storey dwelling with habitable attic space and single storey garage wing. APPLICANT: Dermot Quinlan APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission COUNCILS DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: Irish Farm & Garden Machinery Limited, Hazelbrook, Grange, Malahide, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: for the erection of a 28 metre high antennae support structure with GSM telecommunications antennas and ancillary equipment container to form part of a cellular digital mobile telecommunications network (GSM). APPLICANT: Esat Digifone APPEAL DECISION: Appeal Withdrawn COUNCILS DECISION: GRANT PERMISSION LOCATION: Ballalease North, Donabate, Co. Dublin, bounded by a graveyard to the south; "The Priory" residential estate to the east; the Portrane Road and four private houses, including "The Bungalow", "Avalon", and "Ard na Greine" to the west and one private house to the north. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Residential development comprising; 20 no. detached 4 bed roomed houses, (4 with garages), including entrance gates, pillars and all associated siteworks on a (1.21 hectares) site. APPLICANT: Arch Property Developments Ltd. APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: 1 St. Lawrence's Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: 1 bedroom apartment and garage at basement level and new vehicular and pedestrian entrance. APPLICANT: Mr. K. O'Byrne APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE APPROVAL LOCATION: Stockhole, Cloghran, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: dwelling house and biocycle unit. APPLICANT: John Stapleton APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: 99 Ashley Rise, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: 2 no. semi detached 2 storey houses with respective vehicular entrances to Ashley Rise and Limetree Avenue. APPLICANT: Mr. & Mrs. D. Crawford APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Outline Permission COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE OUTLINE PERMISSION LOCATION: 1 Glebe North, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Outline planning permission for a single dwelling. APPLICANT: Bernadette and Thomas Brady APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: 1 The Soldier's Cottages, Holmpatrick, Skerries, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Two storey extension and make alterations to dwelling. APPLICANT: Robert and Joan Kehoe  APPEALS NOTIFIED BY AN BORD PLEANALA REFUSE PERMISSION: E. Richardson, Chapel Street/Naul Road, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for demolition of existing single storey fish factory building and construction of new two storey residential development comprising, (a) 6 no. 1 bedroom apartments and 8 no. 2 bedroom apartments (total 14 no.) (b) 10 no. car-parking spaces and associated site works. REFUSE PERMISSION: Jim & Joan Morris, 1 Carrickhill Rise, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey self contained extension and a single storey extension to front, as part of existing dwelling. GRANT PERMISSION: Lamvale Construction Limited, Yellow Walls Townland, Swords Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 3 storey residential development comprising 64 no. 3 or 4 bedroom duplex dwellings over 64 no. garden level 2 bedroom apartments, semi basement car park and associated site works. 
