housing
{  
    September 28 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/localnotes/planning-in-fingal-27785794.html }
FINGAL COUNTY COUNCIL PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 15/09/00 Dalmac Language and Recruitment, North Beach, Rush, Co. Dublin, for change of use from part commercial/residential to commercial to facilitate a Language Institute including alterations to front elevation and internal layout with provision for car parking to rear at 18 Lower Main Street, Rush, G. & M. Newman, 15A Church Road, Dublin 13, for approval for dwelling at site 1 Thormanby Woods, Howth, Co. Dublin. Irish Asphalt Limited, Rosemount Business Park, Ballycoolin Road, Dublin 11, for development of a quarry (the quarry void will extend over an area of 8.59 hectares (21.2 acres) and associated primary crushing facilities, offices, weighbridge, wheelwash, portable toilets, water treatment facility and all associated landscaping and development works. Permission is also being sought for the restoration of the quarry on its completion to existing ground levels. The proposed development is contained on an overall site area of 13.86 hectares (34.3 acres). The site is located in the townland of Bay, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. This application for planning permission is accompanied by an Environmental Impact Statement at Baylane Bay, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. John Harvey, Hayestown, Naul, Co. Dublin, toerect dwelling garage, sewage treatment plant and associated external works on site at Dermotstown, Naul, Co. Dublin. Michael Quinn, Adamstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin, to construct 2 dormer bungalows with biocycle units and new vehicular entrances at Adamstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin. I. F. Van De Pol, 122 The Links, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for garage extension to the side, a conservatory to the rear and a side vehicular access at 122 The Links, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. P. Byrne, Chanel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and biocycle waste water treatment system at Kenure Park, off Palmer Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Jillian Keogh, 30 Victoria Road, Clontarf, Dublin 3, for proposed development at dwelling house with septic tank and percolation area and vehicular entrance at Baldwinstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Gannon Homes Ltd., 41-43 Shelbourne Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4, for : 30 two bedroom duplex townhouses over 30 one bedroom garden level apartments; 15 two bedroom duplex townhouses over 15 one bedroom deck level apartments of which 14 have provision for homebased economic activity at ground floor level; 7 two bedroom apartments in three and a half storeys; 1 retail unit at lands within Applewood Village on Jugback Lane, North of Glen Ellan, Swords, Co. Dublin. Tony Ferguson, Ballykea, Loughshinny, Co. Dublin, for erection of bungalow and septic tank at Featherbed Lane, Ballykea, Lusk, Co. Dublin. J. Downey, 129 Cherry Avenue, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey granny flat extension and new vehicular entrance at Pluckhimin, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Stella Maria Murphy, 33 The Old Golf Link, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for approval for site layout and detailed design of no. 5 bedroom dwelling house with associated ancillary accommodation, works and garages. Following on from outline approval granted under Reg. Ref. F00A/0600 on one hectare of land located at Plot 2, land to the south of Back Road at Plot 2 land to the South of Back Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Patrick and Kay Doyle, 'Mount Pleasant', 16 Thormanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, to demolish two derelict outhouses and build one dormer bungalow with septic tank drainage and detached garage/outhouse at Windgate Road North, Howth, Co. Dublin. Josephine Hughes, 32 Highfield Lawns, Swords, Co. Dublin, for granny flat extension to side, new porch to front and pedestrian access to side of 11 Berwick Avenue at 11 Berwick Avenue, The Manor Swords, Co. Dublin. Ms. Susan McLean, 25 Moyclare Park, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for two storey townhouse at 25 Moyclare Park, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. Mr. & Mrs. Brendan Curran, 43 Brackenstown Avenue, Swords, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission for the erection of a dormer bungalow dwelling at the corner of Brackenstown Avenue and St. Columba's Heights situated in the rear and side garden at 43 Brackenstown Avenue, Swords, Co. Dublin. Gannon Homes Ltd., Killorglan House, Shelbourne Road, Dublin 4, for residential development consisting of 194 four bedroom houses, 77 three bedroom houses, 18 two bedroom houses and 1 one bedroom house ranging from 2 to 3 storeys; 17 two bedroom duplex units over 17 one bedroom garden apartments in 5 blocks ranging from 3 to 3 1/2 storeys; 199 two bedroom and 39 one bedroom apartments in blocks of 3 and 4 storeys with penthouses over, 12 of which with parking under, accessed from Coast Road Malahide and for associated engineering site works including water tower and pump station and the provision to Fingal County Council of circa 91 acres of land for a public park at site at Robswalls, Coast Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. An EnvironmentalImpact Statement accompanies this application Astondale Construction Ltd., 17 Adelaide Road, Dublin 2, for Residential development of 206 units comprising Block 1, 6 no. 2 bed apartments and 10 no. 1 bed apartments in one 3 storey block; Block J, 6 no. 2 bed apartments and 10 no. 1 bed apartments in one three storey block; Block K 6 no. 2 bed apartments and 10 no. 1 bed aparments in one no. three storey block; Block L, 6 no. two bed apartments and 28 no. 1 bedroom apartments in one no. three storey block; Block M, 6 no.2 bed apartments and 10 no. 1 bed apartments in one 3 storey block; Block N, 4 no. 3 bed apartments and 8 no. 2 bed apartments in one 2 storey block; Block O, 4 no. 3 bed apartments and 8 no. 2 bed apartments in one two storey block; Block P, 6 no.2 bedroom apartments, 10 no. 1 bed apartments in one 3 storey block; Block Q, 6 no. 2 bed apartments and 28 no. 1 bed apartments in one 3 storey block; Block R, 6 no. 2 bed apartments and 10 no. 1 bed apartments in one 3 storey block; 10 no. 3 bed two storey semi-detached houses; 8 no. 2 bed, two storey terraced houses; two storey creche and activity centre with an area of 396 m sq; and associated site works, including surface and underground car parking and single storey building containing pumping station at New Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin.. Vincent Savage, 39 Binn Eadair View, Sutton, Dublin 13, for 1 storey extension to side of 39 Binn Eadair View at 39 Binn Eadair View, Sutton, Dublin 13. G. & L. Hess, 15 Church Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin, to renovate and modify existing two storey over basement, terraced building complete with single storey extension to the rear with balcony at 2 Holmpatrick Terrace, Skerries, Co. Dublin. P. Keegan, 71 Abbey Park, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for front extension two-storey gable extension including garage conversion, double garage in side garden at 71 Abbey Park, Dublin 13. J. Farrelly, 12 Strand Road, Sutton, Co. Dublin, for alterations to 2-storey house to include: a. Two new bay windows to front elevation, with balconies over; b. New conservatory and new bay window with balcony to rear elevation; c. New elevational treatments to internal layouts to both side elevations; d) New internal layouts to ground and first floors. e) Removal of existing conservatory at The Pines, Greenfield Road, Sutton Cross, Dublin 13. R. Ferguson, Piercetown, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for dormer extension to house at Piercetown, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Brian McCarthy, 37 The Warren, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for conservatory and balcony at rear of house at site no. 7 Abington, Swords Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mrs. Josephine Cunningham, 141 Cherry Avenue, Swords, Co. Dublin, for retention of chimney, revisions to ground floor accommodation to suit physically handicapped occupant and alterations to front and gable elevations at 141 Cherry Avenue, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. J. McGrath, 59 St. Columbas Rise, Swords, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing garage to side of existing house and build new single storey extension to side with pitched roof at 59 St. Columba's Rise, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Forte, 43 Offington Drive, Sutton, Dublin 13, for conversion of attic to habitable rooms with dormer window to front, velux rooflights to rear and new porch to front at 43 Offington Drive, Sutton, Co. Dublin. Michael Dillon, 7 Turvey Avenue, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for extension at side of cottage at 7 Turvey Avenue, Donabate, Co. Dublin. David Brophy, 147 Ard na Mara, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for retention and modifications to previously approved alterations to include first floor projection and columns and bay window to side at 147 Ard na Mara, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Dermot and Mary Walsh, 37 Abbeyvale Court, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to side and attic conversion to main roof at 37 Abbeyvale Court, Swords, Co. Dublin. Fingal Memorials & Monuments Ltd., Homefield, Malahide Road, Balgriffen, Co. Dublin, for temporary permission for new workshop to rear of existing stables and new road entrance with gates at Homefield, Malahide Road, Balgriffen, Co. Dublin.  LIST OF DECISIONS MADE FROM 11/09/2000 TO 15/09/2000 Decisions to GRANT APPROVAL were made in respect of the following applications: C. Hand, Turkinstown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for dormer style 4 bedroom house, garage and effluent treatment plant at Inch Townland, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Decisions to GRANT PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Camilus Archer, Sandyhills, Rush, Co. Dublin, for compost store and associated works on site at Palmer Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Ms. Lorraine Lowndes, 31 St. Columba's Rise, Swords, Co. Dublin, to erect a 3 bedroom house at rear at rear no. 31, St. Columba's Rise, Swords, Co. Dublin. O. Plunkett, 121 Gaybrook Lawns, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for house adjoining 121 Gaybrook Lawns at 121 Gaybrook Lawns, Malahide, Co. Dublin. E. Jones, Lower Main Street, Rush, Co. Dublin, for 8 semi-detached dormer bungalows and 1 detached two storey house at Bawn Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Precision Construction Unit D2, Airport Business Park, Swords Road, Co. Dublin, for 7 dormer bungalows with biocycle treatment plant at Loughshinny, Co. Dublin. Barleyfield Construction, Barleyfield House, Hayestown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for demolition of existing dwelling and erection of 8 dormer bungalows and eleven 2 storey dwellings at Sandy Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Mr. P. Kelly, 52 Balkil Park, Howth, Co. Dublin, for 3 bedroom semi-detached house to the side at 52 Balkil Park, Howth, Co. Dublin. P. Reddin, 12 Balbriggan St., Skerries, Co. Dublin, for change of use of part of existing garage workshop to dog parlour with in site car parking at the rear at 12 Balbriggan St., (rear yard), Skerries, Co. Dublin. L. Fay Jnr, 'Collins', Brownstown, Swords, Co. Dublin, for new house and sewage treatment plant at 'Collins', Brownstown, Swords, Co. Dublin. D. & K. Leonard, Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing glasshouses and side extension to existing bungalow. Relocate vehicle entrance, build two new two-storey houses at Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Mrs. Bronwyn Reilly, Lerrig, Old Carrickbrack Road, Bailey, Howth, Co. Dublin, for new stone wall with new pedestrian gate, repositioning of existing entrance, new parking area beyond entrance and new conservatory to the south of existing house at Lerrig, Old Carrickbrack Road, Bailey, Howth, Co. Dublin. Carroll Estates Ltd, 25 Merrion Square, Dublin 2, for revised layout and house types, total no. being 20 comprising 2 no. detached four bed, 8 no. semi-detached four bed, and 10 no. semi detached three bed. This land was .previously approved for 18 no. houses under Reg. Ref. F97A/117 at Glen Ellen Gardens and Glen Ellen Walk, Swords, Co. Dublin. Pat Byrne, 'Shanganagh', Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for garage conversion, alterations, extension to existing bungalow and widening of existing vehicular entrance at 'Shanganagh', Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Falcon Homes Ltd., Branganstown, Kilcock, Co. Kildare, for retention of amendments to previous permission (ref F99A/0291) to include minor alterations to plans and elevations of two storey terrace of four houses (two no. two bed and two no. three bed) at sites numbered 202-205 (house numbers 02, 04, 06 and 08 Kelly's Bay Rocks) all at lands adjacent Rail Line and Kelly's Lane at (House nos. 02, 04, 06, and 08 Kelly's Bay Rocks) all at lands adjacent Rail Line and Kelly's Lane, Balbriggan Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Seagoat Limited, c/o Simpson Xavier, 20 Merchants Quay, Dublin 8, for modification to previously approved Units 5, 6 and 7; Residential development comprising three two-storey 2 beds, townhouses; and alteration of site boundary to provide ten number on courtilage, surface parking spaces; on existing shirt factory site of approximately 885 sq.metres - previous Reg.Ref.F99A/0055 at The Square, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Martin Foreman, 16, Vernon Heath, Clontarf, Dublin 3, for first floor windows and side extension at Unit 94, Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13. Michelle Moran, Rowlestown East, Swords, Co. Dublin, for the retention and completion of minor alterations to previously approved dwelling (Reg.Ref.F98A/0860) and new double garage at Rowlestown East, Swords, Co. Dublin. Thomas Moore (Jnr.), Jordanstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for erection of a dormer dwelling and waste water treatment system at Collinstown, Skerries Road, Lusk, Co. Dublin. P. & A. Young, Inglefield, Hanlons Lane, Strand Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for a dormer bungalow at Inglefield, Hanlons Lane, Strand Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Yvonne Bowers, St. Annes, Strand Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for partial change of use of detached house to full day care creche to include single storey extensions to front, rear and sides, relocation of vehicular entrance and alterations to boundary wall treatment at Tigin, 1 off St. Anne's Square, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Frank Taylor & Sons, 14 Carrickbrack Lawn, Sutton, Co. Dublin, for change of use of caretakers bungalow to doctors surgery at race course shopping centre at Racecourse Shopping Centre, Grange Road, Baldoyle, Dublin 13 Frank Taylor & Sons, 14 Carrickbrack Lawn, Sutton, Dublin 13, for change of use of 1st floor from offices to Creche at race course shopping centre at Racecourse Shopping Centre, Grange Road, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. Breda Crouchman, 2 Seatown Terrace, Swords, Co. Dublin, to alter front garden from single walk-way to double gate driveway at 2 Seatown Terrace, Swords, Co. Dublin. More Group (Ire.) Ltd., Beech House, Beech Hill Road, Dublin 4, for provision of additional office space involving internal modification and changes to facade of existing unit at Unit 9 Northwest Business Park, Cloghran Road, Co. Dublin. D. & M. Campbell, 4 Craoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for side and rear two storey extension to two storey dwelling house at 4 Craoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. T. & N. Strong, 737 Sarto Park, Bayside, Sutton, Dublin 13, for two storey extension to the side at 737 Sarto Park, Bayside, Sutton, Dublin 13. Sean & Mary McGoldrick, 18 Alden Road, Dublin 13, to build a bedroom and bathroom over existing garage and to convert the attic into bedroom with dormer window to rear at 18 Alden Road, Dublin 13. Caroline Butterfield, 15 Asgard Park, Howth, Dublin 13, to bedroom extension at first floor level and alterations to dwelling at 15 Asgard Park, Howth, Dublin 13. Marcus Hamill, 2 Lissadell Crescent, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for new two storey side and single storey rear extensions at 2 Lissadell Crescent, Malahide, Co. Dublin. E. & P. Mason, 94 Downside Park (Phase 1), Skerries, Co. Dublin, to build single storey extension to side and rear of dwelling. Comprising of garage to side and sunroom to rear at 94 Downside Park, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Jim Kearns, Mill Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to raise height of front boundary wall and piers, fronting onto Mill Street and face same with stone facing at no. 4 Mill Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Pat Fox, 2 Market Green, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension to the side at 2 Market Green, Ballbriggan, Co. Dublin. Declan O'Donnell, 13 Greenfield Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, for a) 3 no. bay windows to rear; b) veranda and canopy to rear; c) veranda and canopy to front and miscellaneous alterations at 13 Greenfield Road, Sutton, Dublin 13. C. & M. O'Callaghan, 6a Curran Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for single storey/2 storey side extension, to existing 2 storey semi detached dwellinghouse at 6a Curran Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Joan & Pearse O'Doherty, 179 Sarto Lawn, Dublin 13, for extension to front and side at 179 Sarto Lawn, Dublin 13. Mr. Anthony Kildea, Newtown, Balheary, Swords, Co. Dublin, to retain existing domestic garage and garden shed and continued use as such to side and rear, and the change of use of the garage to a bedroom including a new window to existing dwelling at Newtown, Balheary, Swords, Co. Dublin. C. Devine, 44 The Park, Orlynn Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for retention of forticrete block finish to approved dwelling at Great Common, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Mary Laheen - Kitt, 88A The Strand, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension to the side of existing dwelling at 88A The Strand, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Mr. Paul Mason, Borranstown, Ashbourne, Co. Meath, for bungalow, entrance, septic tank, Puraflo treatment system and all ancillary works at Borranstown, Ashbourne. D. Fitzharris, Ballamadun, Garristown, Co. Dublin, to erect a dormer bungalow, new entrance and install a biocycle waste water treatment unit at Ballamadun, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Joan Cody, 47 Bayside Boulevard South, Sutton, Dublin 13, for retention of existing wall to rear and side at 47 Bayside Boulevard South, Sutton, Dublin 13  Requests for CLARIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications: John Andrews and Paul McNamee, Blackhall, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for demolition of existing house and outbuildings and construction of : 1. 11 no. 2 storey 3-bedroomed houses and 5 no. 2 storey, 2 bedroomed houses with access from Old Coach Road and 2. 1 no. 2 storey 4 bedroomed house and 1 no. single storey, 3 bedroomed house with access from the N1 at Old Coach Road, Balrothery, Co. Dublin. J. Wade Developments Ltd., Castlelands, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for construction of 94 no. dwellings comprising of 1 no. detached dormer, 10 no. 4 bed 2 storey semi-detached, 56 no. 3 bed 2 storey semi detached and 27 no. 3 bed 2 storey terraced dwellings in 7 blocks and revisions to road and housing layout on already approved site (reg. ref. F98A/0060, housing development of 66 units) at Rosepark, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. J. Tobin, Ballagh, Riverstown, Birr, Co. Tipperary, for permission to build two storey house with yard and out building and waste water treatment plant at The Glebe, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. C. Marren, Lecklinstown, Naul, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and Bio Cycle Unit at Lecklinstown, Naul, Co. Dublin.  Requests for ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications: Moloney Developers & Builders Ltd., Tralee, Co. Kerry, to extend new road and add five detached two storey houses to current development plan ref. F99A/0527 at Northcliff Heights, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Frank Quinn, 98 Millview Lawns, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and biocycle unit off Ministers Road at Ministers Road, Lusk, Co. Dublin. H & R. Construction, Dermotstown, Ring Common, Naul, Co. Dublin, for proposed town house and entrance to Road at site between Nos. 39 and 41 Clonard St at site between 39 and 41 Clonard Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Derek Clinton, Darcystown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for 1 no. bungalow and associated site work at Darcystown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin Rhonda & Colin Brophy, 16 The Old Hill, Ratoath, Co. Meath, for new 2 storey dwelling and vehicular entrance to side of dwelling at Naul Village, Co. Dublin Biscuit Makers Ltd., Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for Erection of a 243 metre sq. factory extension, a 148 metre sq. 2 storey office extension and 3 no. ingredients storage silos. Retain a 24 metre sq. boiler room extension, a 172 metre sq. dispatch extension, a sunken dock leveller ramp area, 5 no. ingredients storage silos, syrup tank bund enclosure and associated concrete circulation yard at Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin. K. Kane, 40 St. Annes Square, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, to construct 2-storey house at side at 40 St. Anne's Square, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. R. Evelyn & Paul Reardon, 3 Bailey Green Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for refurbishment (incl.demolition of extensions), new extension at side and rear with split level floors, accommodation within the roof space and velux rooflights at 3 Bailey Green Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Thomas James McMahon, Dunbride, 6 Nashville Park, Howth, Co. Dublin, to to convert existing hardstand area into garage with overhead storage loft at 6 Nashville Park, Howth, Co. Dublin. B. Bannigan, 13 St. Sylvesters Villas, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey dormer roof extension at 13 St. Sylvester Villas, Malahide, Co. Dublin. J. White, 3 Station Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for retention of apex roof to structure adjoining dwelling at 3 Station Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to REFUSE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Moloney Builders & Developers Ltd., 30 Dale Course Road, Tralee, Co. Kerry, to extend new road and add seven detached two storey houses to current development plan ref. F99A/0527 at Northcliff Heights, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Very Rev. James Randles P.P., 2 Castle Terrace, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey parochial house in grounds of St. Sylvesters Church at St. Sylvester's Church, Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. J. Hand, Mr. J. Hand's Dwelling, Regles, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for a proposed agro grading shed at Mr. J. Hand's Farmyard, Ivy House, The Green, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Jim Thomas, 2 Castle Park, Swords, Co. Dublin, to to construct two storey childcare facility incorporating a change of use of existing shop to childcare facility, single storey extension to rear of shop unit and 6 car parking spaces to the front at Jim Thomas, Butcher, Portrane Road, Donabate, Co. Dublin Peter & Junie Casey, The Rath, Stamullen, Co. Dublin, for dwelling house with septic tank and puraflo waste water treatment system at Tobertown, Stamullen, Co. Dublin. Patrick & Christine Keane, Balheary, Swords, Co. Dublin, for change of dormer house type under registered reference F99A/0059 to new proposal with altered site layout, septic tank, puraflo treatment system and entrance as per previous application at Balheary, Swords, Co. Dublin. Ms. C. O'Sullivan, 6 Sea Park Hill, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for dormer window and attic conversion at 6 Sea Park Hill, Malahide, Co. Dublin. M. Fitzsimons, 4 Carrickhill Middle, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for first floor extension with dormer style roof to existing cottage, also alterations to existing entrance at Fitzsimons Cottages at Fitzsimons Cottages, Windgate Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Viewfair Limited, 24 Adare Park, Coolock, Dublin 5, for 5 no. dormer type bungalows and ancillary services at Loughshinny, Co. Dublin. George Dennis, Carlim Lodge, Auburn, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for conversion of garage to one bedroom granny flat at Carlim Lodge, Auburn, Malahide, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to GRANT PERMISSION AND REFUSE PERMISSION (SPLIT DECISION) were made in respect of the following applications: MCK Enterprise, The Orchid Chinese Restaurant, 51B Church Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for retention of sign on North eastern elevation and the proposed sign lighting of same, retention of ventilation/cooling fans at ground level at The Orchid Chinese Restaurant, 51B Church Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Aidan Boylan, 58 Quay Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for proposed retention of reconstruction of asbestos covered kitchenette and additional entrance area at 58 Quay Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Requests for Site Notice in accordance with Article 16 of the Local Government (Planning and Development) Regulations 1994 were made in respect of the following applications: John Harvey, Hayestown, Naul, Co. Dublin, to erect dwelling garage, sewage treatment plant and associated external works on site at Dermotstown, Naul, Co. Dublin.  APPEALS NOTIFIED BY AN BORD PLEANALA DECISION GRANT PERMISSION: P. J. Jones, Edenville Farm, Clonshaugh, Co. Dublin, for construction of single storey storage barn adjacent to existing barn. DECISION Mr. G. Davey, 284A Limetree Avenue, Portmarmock, Co. Dublin, for outline permission for a 3 bedroom bungalow. DECISION GRANT PERMISSION: Mr C. O'Donohue, 14 Seabury Heights, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for alterations and extension to side of dwelling. DECISIONS OF AN BORD PLEANALA APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCIL’S DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: Hampton Place, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: three single storey dwellings designed for persons with reduced mobility/wheelchair users. APPLICANT: Noonan Construction Ltd. APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission COUNCILS DECISION GRANT PERMISSION & REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: 15 James McCormack Gardens, Baldoyle PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: revised rear single storey extension and new vehicular access from Strand Road APPLICANT: E. Barry APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCIL’S DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: Balcarrick, Donabate, Co. Dublin PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: extension to and conversion of Martello Tower to residence to include Bio-Cycle drainage system APPLICANT: Peter Purcell APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission COUNCILS DECISION GRANT PERMISSION LOCATION: Newpark, The Ward, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Dormer bungalow and biocycle unit. APPLICANT: G. Rutledge APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission COUNCIL’S DECISION: GRANT PERMISSION LOCATION: Ballisk, Donabate, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: dormer dwelling. APPLICANT: S. Smyth APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCIL’S DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: 1 Seabury Crescent, Malahide,Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: proposed new special purpose 2 storey 3 bedroom detached house. APPLICANT: Breda Meyrick 
