housing
{  
    June 15 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/localnotes/fingal-co-council-planning-list-for-week-ending-june-2nd-27784716.html }
FINGAL COUNTY COUNCIL PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 02/06/00 Mr. &amp; Mrs. A. Battersby, Ashbourne Road, Co. Meath, for dormer bungalow, garage and biocycle treatment unit at Baltrasna, Ashbourne. L. Jones, 10 The Close, Orlynn Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for detached two storey dormer bungalow to the rear with access from Brookside Gardens at Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. G. Price, Seaside, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for retention of extension to existing house, car access and sheds at Seaside, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin. M. Hynes, 52 Island View, Malahide, Co.Dublin, for single storey play school extension to rear at 52 Island View, Malahide, Co. Dublin. O. Thorne, Santa Ponza, Sandy Lane, Rush, Co. Dublin, to construct a 4 bedroom bungalow at Ballest Park, Sandy Lane, Rush, Co. Dublin. Moloney Developers & Builders Ltd., Tralee, Co. Kerry, to extend new road and add five detached two storey houses to current development plan ref. F99A/0527 at Northcliff Heights, Skerries, Co. Dublin. T. Keegan, 70 Orlynn Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for alterations to previously approved dwelling (Reg. Ref. F98A/0401) comprising changes to elevations at "Milverton", Skerries, Co. Dublin. Gillespie & Co. Ltd., Swords Business Park, Co. Dublin, for new single storey Energy Centre of Gross Area 110 sq.m. adjacent to and serving The Distribution Warehouse under construction, to regularise amendments to the Warehouse comprising two additional loading bays, one forklift service door, battery charging room and minor amendments to external works at Swords Business Park, Co. Dublin. Electricity Supply Board, 5th Floor Clanwilliam House, Clanwilliam Place, Dublin 2, erect its existing 38 kV, substation site at Airport roundabout on the Swords Road, Collinstown, Co..Dublin, a free standing steel lattice communications mast carrying antenna and microwave dishes, overall height 30 mtrs over ground with associated ground mounted equipment cabinet to form part of E.S.B. communications system, located in a 2.4 metre high palisade compound with pedestrian gate at site at Airport Roundabout Swords Road, Collinstown, Co. Dublin. K. Sisson, Demense Avenue, Tobersool, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission for dwelling house and septic tank system at Demense Avenue, Tobersool Lane, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Kenneth Green, "Green Acres", Blackhall, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for access to garage and lowering of kerb at Blackhall, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. F. Kelleher, Kilreesk, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for alterations to the existing porch, new windows and roof covering to existing house and new entrance and double garage to the side at Kilreesk, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. Waterfront Restaurant Ltd., Waterfront Restaurant, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for demolition of single storey structures to the rear, extension to the side and rear, additional floor over; raising of eaves line and new roof over; change of use from residential to restaurant on first floor level; new one bed apartment on second floor; alterations to elevations; new signage and associated site works at The Waterfront, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Waterfront Restaurant Ltd., Waterfront Restaurant, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for demolition of single storey structures to the rear, construction of 2 no. two storey over basement mews dwellings with vehicular access from lane and associated site works to the rear at Waterfront Restaurant, Skerries, Co. Dublin. A. Hoare, San Rosario, 19 Sandy Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey dormer house adjacent to San Rosario at "San Rosario", 19 Sandy Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. P. Reilly, Nags Head, Damastown, Naul, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission sought for dwelling and biocycle waste water treatment system at Nags Head, Damastown, Naul, Co. Dublin. M. Reilly, Nags Head, Damastown, Naul, Co. Dublin, for change from existing septic tank to biocycle waste water treatment system at Nag's Head, Damastown, Naul, Co. Dublin. Thomas Stafford (jnr.)/Andrea Halpin, Hawthorn Lodge, Killeen, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for detached dormer dwelling and biocycle treatment plant at Killeen, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Paul and Kaoru Stafford, Hawthorn Lodge, Killeen, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for detached bungalow and biocycle treatment plant at Killeen, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. C. Sweetman, Clonard House, Clonard, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for crop and livestock shed at Folkstown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. T. Ryan, Tyone House, Sandyhill, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for single storey agricultural shed of approx. 455 sq.m. for the storage of horse feed and associated machinery at Sandyhill, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. P. Bonass, 26 Seabury Meadow, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for change of use from a shop unit to a licenced betting office at Unit 6 Manor Mall Shopping Centre, Brackenstown Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Roisin Farrell, 6 Colecot, Ballough, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for new dormer bungalow at Oberstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin. C. Gore-Grimes, Roxboro', Carrickbrack Road, Baily, Co. Dublin, for demolition of an existing two storey coach house on approximately 141.2 sq.m. and the construction of a new two storey, two bedroom dwelling of the same floor area, height and footprint as the existing coach house at 71 Old Carrickbrack Road, Baily, Co. Dublin. Diarmuid and Patricia McHugh, Holmpatrick, Rush Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for erection of 9 no. apartments with associated car parking to rere of 58 Main Street at 58 Main Street, Swords, Co. Dublin. A. C. Motors Ltd., Sweeney & Forte, 56 Howth Road, Dublin 3, to construct a two storey office building comprising a total gross floor area of 388 sq.m., to provide seven car park spaces at Grange Road, Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Dublin 13. Rev. Fr. P. Freeney, The Presbytery, Balbriggan, Co.Dublin, for prefabricated temporary 2 classroom building at Balscadden National School, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. John Rice, 13 Ayrfield Park, Rathvale, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for outline permission for 3 no. houses and full planning permission for site development works at Back Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. J. McColgan, Danes Hollow, Carrickbrack Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for biocycle treatment plant and surface water scheme (reg. ref. F99B/0155) at Dane's Hollow, Carrickbrack Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. J. Sutton, The Fox Inn, Ballymadun, Ashbourne, Co. Meath, for first floor extension and modification to existing dwelling at The Fox Inn, Ballymadun, Ashbourne, Co. Meath. Ridgeline Propertiesm Newtownhill House, Captains Hill, Leixlip, Co. Kildare, to retain the attic conversions and associated roof light in the four terraced houses at Portrane National School, Portrane Road, Donabate, Co. Dublin. T. O'Rourke, Kilhedge Lane, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission for cottage style bungalow on site at Kilhedge Lane at Kilhedge Lane, Lusk, Co.Dublin. Sean Newcomen, Hamlet Lane, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to donstruct bungalow with secondary treatment system and two agricultural storage sheds at Knocknagin Lane, Knocknagin, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. P. Farrell, 50 Hayestown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for construction of a 5-bedroomed dormer bungalow at Coast Road, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin. Irene Tyrrell, The Rise, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for new two storey side extension at "Santa Maria", "A" The Hill, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Tim Moloney, 273 Limetree Avenue, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for construction of a single storey extension to the front of the garage and the conversion of same to domestic use at 273 Limetree Avenue, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. T. O'Rourke, Kilhedge Lane, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for extension to rear of cottage at Kilhedge Lane, Lusk, Co. Dublin. C. O'Rourke, 81 Wendell Avenue, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension to side and rear and single storey extension to front at 81 Wendell Avenue, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. D. C. O'Connell, 16 Market Green, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for addition of porch and sunroom to the west side of 16 Market Green at 16 Market Green, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. J. & R. Casey, Darcystown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension (approx. 56 sq.m.) to side and rear of existing bungalow at Darcystown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Vincent Savage, 39 Binn Eadair View, Sutton, Dublin 13, for 1 storey extension to side of 39 Binn Eadair View, Sutton, Dublin 13. Mr. Philip Keogh, 26 The Park, Orlynn Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to side at 26 The Park, Orlynn Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Eamon & Helen Keenan, Borranstown, Ashbourne, Co. Dublin, to erect garage at Borranstown, Ashbourne, Co. Dublin. S. Mulhall, 27 Kelly Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for garage/utility room to the rear at 27 Kelly Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Maurice & Claire Whyms, 15 Castlefield Manor, Malahide, Co. Dublin, to provide a 2 storey extension to the side and a single storey extension to the rear at 15 Castlefield Manor, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Geatano Forte, 7 Thormanby Woods, Howth, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to house at 7 Thormanby Woods, Howth, Co. Dublin. J. McColgan, Danes Hollow, Carrickbrack Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for garages, potting shed and minor modifications to already approved landscape plan (Reg. Ref. F99B/0155) at Dane's Hollow, Carrickbrack Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Thomas Hoare, Heathtown, Skerries, Co. Dublin, to construct dormer bungalow with garage and biocycle unit at Heathtown, Skerries, Co. Dublin. L. Lynch, 5 Barley Hill, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow and biocycle unit at Richardstown, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin. LIST OF DECISIONS MADE FROM 29/05/2000 TO 02/06/2000 Decisions to GRANT OUTLINE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: O. Kirk, Oak Park, Castleknock, Dublin 15, for construction of a single storey dwelling and biocycle waste water treatment system on non residential farm of circa 80 acres with access from Balcarrick Road at Balcarrick Road, Corballis, Donabate, Co. Dublin. O. Kirk, Oak Park, Castleknock, Dublin 15, for outline permission sought for the construction of a single storey dwelling and biocycle waste water treatment system on non residential farm of circa 80 acres with access from Balcarrick Road at Corballis, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Decisions to GRANT PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Mr. and Mrs. Frank Fitzpatrick, 256 Sutton Park, Sutton, Dublin 13, for semi detached two storey house at side and vehicular entrance at 256 Sutton Park at 256 Sutton Park, Sutton, Dublin 13. Keelco Ltd., Unit 12 Donabate Town Centre, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for retention of the first floor office units no. 12, 13, 14 and 15 at Donabate Shopping Centre, Ballalease West, Portrane Road, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Moriarty Holdings Ltd., Unit 15 Palmerstown Shopping Centre, Palmerstown, Dublin 20, for 490 sq.m. storeroom extension, 10 sq.m. stair enclosure and alterations to the main facade at 47-49 Drogheda Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. O. Kirk, Oak Park, Castleknock, Dublin 15, for construction of an agricultural shed on lands at Corballis, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Institute of Technology, Blanchardstown Road North, Dublin 15, for new development consisting of two teaching buildings, a library and administration building, a multipurpose hall and catering building, an apprentice training building, car parking, infrastructure and landscaping on the Institute's Campus site. The campus is being developed in conjunction with a Business and Technology Park being developed as a joint venture by Fingal County Council and IDA Ireland. The development proposed represents Phase 1 and 2 of the Institute's campus development plan at Institute's Campus Site, Blanchardstown Road North, Dublin 15. Gerard Moore, Balgaddy Lane, Naul, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and biocycle waste water treatment system at Tobeen, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Mr. Dan Sugrue, 84 Martello Court, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for proposed new two storey house to side of house to incorporate single storey conservatory to rear and proposed new conservatory to rear of existing house at 116 Huntstown Wood, Mulhuddart, Dublin 15. Mr. M. McNally, Loughmore, Hoar Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for modifications to site layout and new access gateway to previously approved two storey house at Loughmore, Hoar Rock, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Mr. D. Smith, Delmaine, Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for front boundary wall, railings and gates to dwelling house at "Delmaine", Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Keelings Limited, Roslin, Kileek Lane, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, to construct an extension to the existing vegetable packhouse and a new security hut to the entrance of the existing facility at Roslin, Kileek Lane, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin= Francis Kearney, 23 Oak Crescent, Royal Oak, Santry, Dublin 9, to erect a single storey dwelling, biocycle waste water treatment system and ancillary site works at 5 The Grange, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Swords Laboratories, Watery Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin, for extension of the P3 production building, together with the fit-out of existing store/vacant shell space to that of a production area within the said structure. The extension includes 632.70 sq. m. of pharmaceutical production area/associated space on ground, first and mezzanine floors together with the construction of a new escape stairwell (fully clad), external drum store and external bunds at Swords Laboratories, Watery Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin. The application/development requires an IPC Licence. The Board of Management, Base Building, site beside St. Cronan's Church, Brackenstown Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for first floor extension at rear of the BASE building at St. Cronan's Church, Brackenstown Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Ben Developments, Hazelbrook House, Kinsealy Business Park, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin, to retain double garage, garage conversion and extension to approved house types ref. F99A/0905 on 22.7.1999 at 41 and 42 Beaverbrook, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Joseph Hammersley, 58 Beach Park, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for house alterations: 1. front porch - extending tiled canopy roof, lounge window to bay. 2. Rear - covering top part of conservatory roof. 3. Changing house windows to pvc at 58 Beach Park, Portmarnock, Co.Dublin. Mr. Paul O'Keeffe, 24 Seabury Close, Malahide, Co. Dublin, first floor extension over existing lounge kitchen at 24 Seabury Close, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Michael and Ruth O'Connell, 173 Sutton Park, Dublin 13, to erect a porch to incorporate an extension to the front of the garage and convert the garage at 173 Sutton Park, Sutton, Dublin 13. Martin Boyle, Laraghcon, Clonee Road, Lucan, Co. Dublin, front porch and side extension with attic conversion at Laraghcon, Clonee Road, Lucan, Co. Dublin. Frank & Caroline Brennan, 14 Forest Crescent, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin, for bathroom extension and second-storey bedroom extension to rear at 14 Forest Crescent, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin. Denis Fisher, Old Schoolhouse, Domastown, Naul, Co. Dublin, for retention of bedroom and bathroom at first floor level, retention of change of use of kitchen to bedroom with ensuite toilet and permission for new lounge and entrance hall to house at Old Schoolhouse, Domastown, Naul, Co. Dublin. Mr. Donald Kennedy, 202 Briar Walk, Martello, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension at side at 202 Briar Walk, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. S. Lunney, 32 Oaklands Park, Swords, Co. Dublin, for retention of conservatory at rear at 32 Oaklands Park, Swords, Co. Dublin. T. Duffy, 37 Castle Cove, Yellow Walls Road, Malahide, Co Dublin, for first floor domestic extension to the side, a sunroom to the rear, alterations to porch at front and ancillary work at 37 Castle Cove, Yellow Walls Road, Malahide, Co Dublin. Seamus Welsh, 20 The Cedars, Boroimhe, Fosterstown, Swords, Co. Dublin, for conversion of garage to habitable area with upper storey extension to existing dwelling at 20 The Cedars, Boroimhe, Fosterstown, Swords, Co. Dublin. James Richardson, 60 Chraoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for extension to rear at 60 Craoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Mary Murphy, 60 Tara Cove, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to erect 1.7 metric screen wall at side at 60 Tara Cove, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Andrew Tallon, 8 Valley View, Brackenstown Road, Swords, for moving garden gate and drive-in from the front of house to the left hand side of front where pathway is already sloped and paved at 8 Valley View, Swords, Co. Dublin Gannon Homes Limited, 41-43 Shelbourne Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4, for 3 storey apartment block comprising 9 one and two bedroom apartments as part of phase 2 of proposed village on lands north of Glen Ellen, Swords, Co. Dublin. Requests for ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications: Martin Flatterly & Olive Gartland, 38-40 North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin, for change of use of existing listed house to office use. 2. Demolition of single storey extensions to rear and side of house. 3. Re-location of existing bookmakers shop to new single storey pitched roof building to side of listed house. 4. Erection of part single storey and part two storey flat roofed office building to side and rear of listed house and associated carparking. 5. Erection of 7 no. 3 storey pitched roof terraced townhouses, carparking and all associated site development works at 38-40 North Street, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. John Halpenny, 10 Glen Ellen Close, Swords, Co. Dublin, for new two storey house on site no. 3 Springfield House with access from existing private access lane at site no.3,Springfield House, Dublin Road, Swords, Co. Dublin Elaine Walsh, Tobergregan, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for dwelling house, septic tank and associated site works at Borranstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Paul Walshe, 187 Tonlegee Road, Dublin 5, to erect a house at the side at 36 Grange Road, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Kevin Grahamm 15 Seapark Hill, Seapark, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for two storey dwelling with dormer attic at the site adjacent to no. 2 Grove Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. The works include a new stone faced wall adjacent to no. 2 Grove Road and new access/entrance gates in existing front wall of the site at 2 Grove Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. D. Smith, Delmaine, Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for conversion of existing garage and store room to one bedroom granny flat at side of dwelling house at "Delmaine", Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. David May, 21 Harbour Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for for alteration to existing facade to provide wider entrance to lounge bar, demolition of existing ground and first floor structures to the rear and the construction of two storey extension to the rear with new access stairs to first floor at Joe Mays Public House, Harbour Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin. J. & G. Aherne, Leas Cross Residential Nursing Home, Leas Cross, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to the existing retirement complex providing for an additional forty four beds and ancillary accommodation at Leas Cross Residential Nursing Home, Leas Cross, Swords, Co. Dublin. J. & A. Hartford, Ballough, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for agricultural store at existing farm at Ballough, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Mary Archer, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for 9 townhouses in two blocks at Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. J. Kirwan, 1 The Mall, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for semi detached two storey three bedroom dwelling to side at side of 1 The Hill, Malahide, Co. Dublin. J. Gilmour, 11 Beechpark, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for single storey garage extension to the side at 11 Beechpark, Portmarnock, Co.Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. S. Flanagan, Treborth East, Claremont Road, Howth, Dublin 13, for domestic extension and alterations including a two storey garage and bathroom extension to the side, a conservatory and utility area to the rear at Treborth East, Claremont Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Decisions to REFUSE OUTLINE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: L. Kirby, 40 Carrickhill Walk, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for outline permission for two bedroom two storey house on site at side of 40 Carrickhill Walk with vehicular access from Carrickhill Rise at 40 Carrickhill Walk, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. M. O'Gorman, 8 Broadmeadows Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission for new single storey dwelling and biocycle waste water treatment plant at Thornton, Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin. Decisions to REFUSE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Mr. P. O'Donnell, Man O War, Courtlough, Co.Dublin, for farm and two bungalows with biocycle units at Man-O-War, Courtlough, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. P. Coleman, Piercetown, Rush Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow with biocycle waste water treatment system at Piercetown, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Fran and Barbara McGuinness, 7 The Green, Seatown Park, Swords, Co. Dublin, for construction of a dwelling house with septic tank and associated site works at Tyrrelstown Little, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Mr. P. Power, 48 Hillside Gardens, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for two storey house to side at 48 Hillside Gardens, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Joan Crowley, 28 Seaview Park, Portrane, Co.Dublin, for new dwelling and biocycle treatment system at The Lawn, The Burrow, Portrane, Co. Dublin. K. Coleman, 69 Downside, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow, sewage treatment plant and associated site works at Lusk Road, Milverton, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Ken Kinsella, Lispopple, Swords, Co.Dublin, for bungalow with biocycle waste water treatment unit at Lispopple, Swords, Co. Dublin. Derek Clinton, Darcystown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for revised house type to that previously approved (Reg. Ref. F94A/0835) at Darcystown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. J. P. O'Connor, 3 Golf Links Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for detached house at side of no. 3 Golf Links Road at 3 Golf Links Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Alison Richardson, 5 Moyne Road, Baldoyle, for cead pleanala iomlan a fhail i gcomhair for theach a heanamh ar teach ag uimhir a cuig bothar Moyan, Baldoyle, Baile Atha Cliath ag uimhir a cuig bothar Moyne, Baldoyle, Baile Atha Cliath. D. Langan, Laguna, Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for detached house and biocycle waste water treatment unit. at Palmer Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Requests for TIME EXTENSIONS in accordance with Section 26(4a) of the Local Government (Planning & Development) Act, 1963 as amended by Section 39(f) of the Local Government (Planning and Development) Act, 1976 were submitted and accepted in respect of the following applications: T. & D. Kennedy, Dunsoughly, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for new potato and vegetable cold storage, handling and despatch building with loading bays to rear, retention of relocated side door in a new potato washing, packing and storage facility previously approved under Reg. Ref. F97A/0893 and retention of bored well and pump house at Broghan, The Ward, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. D. Richardson, 32 Flemington Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin at Tubbertown, The Naul, Co. Dublin. Garret Kenny, "Roseville", Turvey, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for demolition of existing house and sheds, the construction of 20 no. light industrial/warehouse units with ancillary offices to contain a total floor space of 22,764 sq. m. with up to 720 car parking spaces, the construction of sewerage treatment plant, new access road and new junction between proposed road and existing Turvey Avenue at Roseville, Turvey, Donabate at Roseville, Turvey Avenue, Donabate, Co. Dublin. The following applications were WITHDRAWN: John Rice, 13 Ayrfield Park, Rathvale, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 3 no. sites for dwelling houses, new entrance gates and road and effluent treatment systems at Back Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. APPEALS NOTIFIED BY AN BORD PLEANALA: DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: Shirley Cowley, Dunsoghly, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for erection of bungalow and installation of biocycle unit. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: Mr. & Mrs. Noel Quinn, Race Course Lane, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and biocycle unit. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: Mr. & Mrs. Liam Giles, The Bungalow, Seaview Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin, for variations to extension/alteration works carried out recently under planning permission F96B/0468. DECISION GRANT PERMISSION & REFUSE PERMISSION: J. Melinn, 28 Verbena Lawn, Dublin 13, for build a first floor bedroom and shower compartment over existing extension to side and rere and to extend front porch and build two bay windows with canopy. DECISIONS OF AN BORD PLEANALA: APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission. COUNCIL’S DECISION: GRANT PERMISSION. LOCATION: Holmpatrick, South Strand and Brookville Lane, Skerries, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: (1) The demolition of nos. 12 and 13 Holmpatrick, the Holmpatrick Hotel and Clino Convalescent Clinic; (2) the construction of a two storey with penthouse 53 bed nursing home with associated admin. space, 16 on-street and 17 basement car spaces and associated site works and landscaping; (3) the construction of a three storey with penthouse block of 34 no. 1, 2 and 3 bed apartments with 48 no. basement car spaces and access from Brookville Lane along with associated site works and lanscaping; all on a 1.55 acre site fronting Holmpatrick, South Strand and Brookville Lane, Skerries, Co. Dublin. APPLICANT: Heritage Properties Ltd. APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission. COUNCIL’S DECISION: GRANT PERMISSION. LOCATION: Keepers Cottage, Windgate Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Reinstate Keepers Cottage, (permission previously granted under reg. ref. 87B/15) and including waste water treatment system. APPLICANT: Mr. & Mrs. E. A. Mulhall. 
