housing
{  
    November 05 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/localnotes/planning-in-fingal-27786655.html }
PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 22/10/99 Fingal County Council has received the following applications for outline planning permission: Jean Woodnutt, Carey's Lane, Dublin Rd, Streamstown, Malahide for outline permission for proposed 2 storey detached dwelling and septic tank at Carey's Lane, Streamstown, Malahide. Fingal County Council has received the following applications for planning permission: Mr. Liam Wallace, Baskin Hall, Kinsealy for retention and completion of remodelled horse training track at Baskin Hall, Kinsealy. K. Tiernan, Pine Acre, Grace Dieu, Ballyboughal for bungalow, puraflo treatment plant and vehicular entrance at Pine Acre, Grace Dieu, Ballyboughal. Mr. Owen Owens, Suite 1, Marion House, 93/95 Terenure Rd East, Dublin6 for change of use from first floor offices to first floor restaurant at the previously approved two storey commercial development at corner Railway St and Drogheda St, Balbriggan. Steve and Sarah Tormey, 1 Killeen Ave, Malahide for new two storey dormer style house and associated site works at 21 Auburn, Malahide. Derek Plant, Old Coach Rd, Balrothery, Balbriggan to construct 1 no. dwelling at Old Coach Rd, Balrothery, Balbriggan. S. O'Riordan, Castlefarm, Kilsallaghan for dormer bungalow and biocycle unit at Castlefarm, Kilsallaghan. E. O'Riordan, Castlefarm, Kilsallaghan for dormer bungalow and biocycle unit at Castlefarm, Kilsallaghan. S. O'Riordan, Castlefarm, Kilsallaghan for dormer bungalow and biocycle unit at Castlefarm, Kilsallaghan. J. Traynor, Ballymadun, Ashbourne for bungalow and septic tank at Ballymadun, Nutstown. J. Higgins, rear of 2 Warrenhouse Rd, Baldoyle to erect new dormer style house to the rear at 2 Warrenhouse Rd, Baldoyle. A. O'Connell, Danesfort, Old Carrickbrack Rd, Howth, Dublin 13 to demolish existing 2 storey house and erect 2 storey house at Danesfort, Old Carrickbrack Rd, Howth, Dublin 13. Mrs. M. Barnwall, Thornville House, Kilbarrack Rd, Dublin 5 for dormer bungalow at Marshallstown, Kettles Lane, Cloghran. C. Smyth and W. Kavanagh, Kileek, St. Margarets for dormer bungalow and biocycle unit. This application is for modifications to site layouts of previously approved planning application at Kileek, St. Margarets. N. Rutledge, The Whitehouse, Newpark, The Ward for dormer extension to approved dormer bungalow and stables at Newpark, The Ward. Granway Ltd, Cois Cuian, Handpark, Rush for minor alterations to previously approved site layout and for a new detached dormer bungalow and associated site works on a site located between sites 2 & 3 of existing residential development at Lower Main St, Rush. C. Duff, Meadow View, Posey Lane, Kinsealy for bungalow and puraflo WWTS plus associate works on site at Posey Lane, Kinsealy. T. Doyle, 50B Hayestown Park, Rush for bungalow and biocycle treatment system at Palmer Rd, Rush. B. O'Casey, 5 Brookdale Lawns, Hilltown, Swords for two storey dormer style dwelling house on site to rear of existing house, including modified entrance gates, access driveway and septic tank at 4 Station Rd, Portmarnock. M. & P. Mullan, Station Rd, Lusk for two storey house garage/store and biocycle system at Skerries Rd, Lusk. V. Lumley, Kileek, St. Margarets for dormer bungalow and biocycle unit at Killeek, St. Margarets. S. Lumley , Kileek, St. Margarets for dormer bungalow and biocycle unit at Killeek, St. Margarets. Sharon Gilmartin, 42 Glen Ellan Green, Swords for change of use of part of existing house to from playschool at 47 Glen Ellan Green, Swords. A. Marrey, Margaretsown, Skerries for dormer dwelling at Margaretsown, Skerries. Logancourt Properties Ltd, St. James Court, Malahide for erection of 124 no. dwellings comprising 88 no. Houses and 18 no. duplex units over 18 no. ground floor apartments with associated car parking and landscaping at Quay Rd, Rush. Abbey Commercial Parks Ltd, Old Airport Rd, Turnapin Great, Cloghran for minor amendments to the approved layout to include the following: revised layout of lorry park, car park, and entrance and retention of washstand, diesel facility, 4 prefab units and advertising signs and minor alterations to the 2 storey building to provide for the upgrading of the approved facility by providing for a more formal restaurant as opposed to the canteen, coffee bar, restaurant at Turnapin Great, Old Airport Rd, Cloghran. Signways Holdings Ltd, 23 Seafield Rd, Blackrock to retain one advertising sign at Ballough, Lusk. Esat Digifone Ltd, 76 Lower Baggot St, Dublin 2 for the erection of a 24m high monopole with GSM telecommunications antennae, radio link dishes, equipment cabin, access track and security fencing to from part of the digital mobile communications network at Hayestown, Rush. Mr. & Mrs. Jimmy Doyle, No. 35 St. Margarets Rd, Malahide for widening of existing entrance by 1m and two storey extension to side at No. 35 St. Margarets Rd, Malahide. E. Rooney, L. O'Dea and P. Reid, Stations Master House, Malahide for change of use of the Station Masters House from offices to restaurant incorporating single storey extension of ground floor with mezzanine restaurant use, also t front and side of same at Station Masters House, Malahide. Patrick and Roisin Hughes, Rowans Lusk for dwelling house, horse stables and septic tank with puraflo waste water treatment system at Rowans Little, Lusk. Alan Shier, Borranstown Lodge, Finnegans Lane, Borranstown for bungalow new replacement entrance and percolation area and associated site development works and removal of existing farm buildings at Finnegans Lane, Borranstown, Ashbourne. Frank Wilson, The Leas, Swords for 1 no. 4 bed detached house, 8 no. 4 semi-detached houses and 8 no. 3 bed semi-detached houses and ancillary site works at Park Rd, Rush. M. Thorne, Old Rd, Rush for parsnip washing and storage shed with staff facilities and waste water treatment system at Ballydea, Loughshinny. Arbind and Rachna Suri, 35 Melesian Ave, Swords for two storey extension to existing dwelling at 35 Melesian Ave, Swords. Keith O'Brien, Tobersool, Balbriggan for retention of the conservatory to the existing dwelling house at Tobersool, Balbriggan. B. Kirwan, 9 Shielmartin Rd, Sutton, Dublin 13 for retention of roof alterations to bedroom on first floor and internal alterations to kitchen and utility room to previously approved plans at Shielmartin Rd, Sutton, Dublin 13. R. Collier, 8 Church Rd, Sutton, Dublin 13 for single storey extension to rear at 8 Church Rd, Sutton. Mark Sheridan, 14 Hilltown Rd, Rivervalley, Swords for new front porch and rear extension at 14 Hilltown Rd, Rivervalley, Swords. G. Shearman, 278 Briarwalk, Martello, Portmarnock for demolition of existing garage and reconstruction of single storey pitched roof extension to the side at 278 Briarwalk, Martello, Portmarnock. John Amos, 1 Del Val Ave, Sutton, Dublin 13 for alterations and extension to side and rear (incl. Room with roof) to existing dormer dwelling at Dublin Rd, Sutton. T. Foley, 15 Collinswood, Collins Ave, Dublin 9 for alterations and extension to side and rear (incl. Room with roof) to existing dormer dwelling at Dublin Rd, Sutton. T. & A. Walsh, 22 The Brambles, Skerries for retention and completion of modifications to previously approved 2 storey extension to the rear at 22 The Brambles, Skerries. Desmond O'Brien, 15 St. Anne's Square, Portmarnock to erect a two storey extension to the rear at 15 St. Anne's Square, Portmarnock. Philip Duffy, 11 Burrow Court, Portmarnock to construct a single storey extension at side, to convert garage to study and to erect tiled canopy at front at No. 11 Burrow Court, Portmarnock. AMENDMENT TO WEEK ENDING OCTOBER 15th 1999 (WEEK NO. 41) Superquinn Ltd, Sutton Cross, Dublin 13 for single storey extension (46 sq. m.) to the existing bakery at Superquinn Foodstore, Sutton Cross, Sutton, Dublin 13. LIST OF DECISIONS MADE FROM 18/10/99 TO 22/10/99 Decisions to grant approval were made in respect of the following applications: Mr. Patrick Whelan, 20 Castlefield Manor, Malahide for two storey detached house with detached garage on site at 24 Abington, Malahide. Decisions to grant outline permission were made in respect of the following applications: Mr. W. McGrane, 93 Main St, Swords for (a) erection of launderette (b) additional bedrooms and new entrance area for existing B&B (c) 1 no. 3 bedroom apartment at 93 Main St, Swords. Mr. Peter McElroy, 41 St. Anne's Square, Portmarnock for detached two storey house of 174.8 sq. m. on the corner site at 169 Seapark, Malahide. Decisions to grant permission were made in respect of the following applications: Portcott Properties Ltd, Clonard St, Balbriggan for demolition of existing building to be reinstalled with 3 no. 2 storey blocks and associated site works. Each block has 4 no. 2 bedroomed apartments and 2 no. 1 bedroom apartments, making a total of 18 no. apartments at Clonard St, Balbriggan. Church Brothers Builders, Ottawa House, Station Rd, Sutton, Dublin 13 for erection of a two storey apartment block comprising of 5 no. 2 bedroom apartments and 1 no. 1 bedroom apartment at Carrickhill Rd, Portmarnock. Adrienne McDonnell, Kilreesk, St. Margarets to build a dormer bungalow with biocycle unit at Kilreesk, St. Margarets. Leo Neary, Village Store, Main St, Lusk for single storey extension to accommodate new An Post office to rear of the village store at Main St, Lusk. John Kinahan, Newbarn, Kilsallaghan for storage shed to rear of existing house and new vehicle entrance at Newbarn, Kilsallaghan. M. and M. Renehan, Seatown Rd, Swords for bungalow to rear at 2 Commons East, Drynam Rd, Swords. J. & E. Mooney, Tubbertown, Ring Commons for new dormer bungalow, biocycle waste water treatment system and all associated site works at Balscadden. Brian Barker, 60 Glasmore Park, Swords for erection of a dormer bungalow and waste water treatment system at Browncross, Wyanstown, Oldtown. Grainne O'Dowd, Kilcoskan, The Ward to construct dormer bungalow, road entrance, sewerage treatment unit, domestic garage at Kilcoskan, The Ward. Claire O'Dowd, Kilcoskan, The Ward to construct dormer bungalow, road entrance, sewerage treatment unit, domestic garage at Kilcoskan, The Ward. Dr. John Keane, Seaholm, 10 Holmpatrick, Skerries to erect a 3 storey apartment building comprising of 5 no. 2 bed apartments and 1 no. one bed apartment along with 2 off-street parking spaces to the front and 7 off-street parking spaces at rear of No. 8 South Strand Rd, Skerries. R. & C. Dwyer, Skephubble, St. Margarets for single storey creche ancillary extension to existing house and a new septic tank at Skephubble, St. Margarets. Ian Newman and Adrienne Lynch, Leastown, Oldtown for erection of dormer type bungalow including biocycle waste water treatment plant and opening of new joint entrance from public road at Wolganstown, Oldtown. H. & D. Saunders, Cadmans Farmhouse, Turowley, Faversham, Kent, MEB OJT for 2 storey house with granny flat and basement, garage/workshop, tennis court, biocycle waste water treatment system and ancillary works at Hollywood Little, Ballyboughal. K. Deering, Rustic Lodge, Carrickhill, Portmarnock for split level extension to existing dwelling with biofiltration sewage system and site work at 21 Carrickbrack Rd, Sutton South, Dublin 13. Naomh Barrog GAA Club, Kilbarrack Rd, Kilbarrach, Dublin 5 for construction of a clubhouse including changing facilities, community room, lounge bar, office and ancillary accommodation at Kilbarrack Rd, Kilbarrack, Dublin 13. C. Devine, 44 The Park, Orlynn Park, Lusk for dwelling and biocycle system at Great Common, Lusk. Mr. and Mrs. Williams, 23 Castledowns Rd, Seabury, Malahide for construction of a 2 storey and attic room detached dwelling and detached garage at site no. 13 Auburn, Malahide. Joe O'Toole, School House Lane, Corduff, Lusk to replace septic tank with waste water treatment system at School House Lane, Corduff, Lusk. K. Fennelly, 31 Martello Court, Portmarnock for single family residence comprising a two storey dwelling, a garage, tennis court, boundary walls, entrance gates and driveway, landscaping, a private effluent treatment system and sundry works at site 10 Blackwoods, Blackwood Lane, Malahide. St. Sylvestres GAA Clubhouse, Church Rd, Malahide for new emergency fire escape stairs from existing first floor lounge area to side at St. Sylvestres GAA Clubhouse, Church Rd, Malahide. W. & A. Porter, 28 The Green, Seabury, Malahide for bungalow at junction between Carrickhill Rd and Strand Rd, Portmarnock. Flynn and O'Flaherty (Dublin ) Ltd, 21 Pembroke Rd, Dublin 4 for alterations to existing permission for development comprising two and three storeys of offices above ground floor restaurant and retail uses along Malahide Rd and six cinemas above ground floor restaurants/bar and amended mall entrance at north end of commercial/retail building as shown in current application for development as follows: total gross floor area of 8,585 sq. m. comprising offices, cinema, retail /restaurant/bar including associated foyer storage and stairways including : (a) retail/restaurant/bar comprising a total gross floor area of 2, 074 sq. m. (b) offices comprising a total floor area of 3,107 sq. m. (c) cinemas comprising a total gross floor area of 3,375 sq.m. at Milton House, Swords on site extended to include the adjoining Mount Gamble property with access off the Malahide Rd and boundaries also to the N1 dual carriageway, Carlton Court, The Paddocks, Briargate, rear 73/102 Dublin Rd, Miltonfields and rear of Superquinn. Mr. Val Joseph Andrews, 120 Pace Rd, Clonee, Co. Meath for alterations and extensions at 8 The Orchard, Oldtown. G. Connolly, 57 Sutton Grove, Dublin 13 for attic conversion with dormer to rear and ensuite shower/WC at 57 Sutton Grove, Dublin 13. Mr. and Mrs. F. Hayes, 20 Biscayne, Malahide for amended plans of single storey extension at front and side at 20 Biscayne, Malahide. N. Kennedy, 2 Patrick's Close, Skerries for single storey extension to rear of existing house at 2 Patrick's Close, Skerries. Mr. and Mrs. M. Grehan, 36 Seabury Glen, Malahide for two storey extension to side of existing house, incorporating minor alterations to existing front, fa¡ade at 36 Seabury Glen, Malahide. Mr. P. McCullough, 39 The Warren for single storey extension to the side comprising study, kitchen and utility room also conservatory to the rear at 39 The Warren, Malahide. E. Long, 125 Seapark, Malahide for construction of a pitched roof porch to the front of existing dwelling house at 125 Seapark, Malahide. Jim and Hazel Porter, 62 Offington Park, Sutton for 2 storey extension to rear at 62 Offington Park, Sutton. P. Conway, 31 Knockabawn, Rush for extensions to house at South Shore Rd, Rush. Conor Sludds, 63 Rivervalley Grove, Swords for bedroom and bathroom extensions at first floor level at 63 Rivervalley Grove, Swords. Richard and Sinead Farrell, 26 Seabury Ave, Malahide for 1 storey extension over existing room at 26 Seabury Ave, Malahide. B.&B. Ronayne, 6 Selskar Court, Skerries for amendments to previously approved extension at 6 Selskar Court, Skerries. Requests for clarification of additional information were made in respect of the following applications: Miss Sarah and Miss Jennifer Monks, Dermotstown, Balbriggan for demolition of one residence and replacement with two bungalows with separate vehicular entrances, tow biocycles, two stable blocks with six stalls each, stud railing fence all on 20 acres at Dermotstown, Balbriggan. Anthony Wade, Whiterock Rd, Beamore, Drogheda, Co. Meath for outline planning permission sought for bungalow, septic tank and percolation area at Knocknagin Rd, Balbriggan. Decisions to refuse permission were made in respect of the following applications: Mr. P. McDonnell, house beside Man O War pub for dormer bungalow and biocycle waste water treatment system at site at Man O War, Courtlough, Balbriggan. Mr. J. McDonnell, house beside Man O War pub for dormer bungalow and biocycle waste water treatment system at site at Man O War, Courtlough, Balbriggan. M. McKenna, 11 Balbriggan Rd, Skerries for new two storey house to rear with access from Balbriggan Rd at rear of 11 Balbriggan Rd, Skerries. Kevin Farrelly, 8 The Park, Melrose Park, Kinsealy for 2 no. townhouses to the rear at 8 The Park, Melrose Park, Kinsealy. Pat Bonass, Ballyboughal to build a repository/storage facility to rear of dwelling at Ballyboughal. Damian O'Brien, The Rath, Swords to erect a 3 bedroom bungalow, separate garage and biocycle waste water treatment system at The Rath, Swords. Adrian O'Brien, Rath, Swords to construct a 3 bed bungalow c/w garage and biocycle at Rath, Swords. J. Dwyer, Deanstown House, Deanstown, Swords for bungalow, garage and biocycle unit at Magillstown, Swords. Dominick Kiely, The Rath, Swords for erection f bungalow, garage and biocycle unit at Courtlough, Balbriggan. V. Campbell, 16 Beaverstown Orchard, Donabate to erect a playroom extension onto an existing residence with creche usage at 16 Beaverstown Orchard, Donabate. M. Scully, 14 Stockton Court, Castleknock, Dublin 15 to erect a dormer residence, new entrance and biocycle treatment unit at Castlefarm, Kilsallaghan. Mary Cassidy, 18 Balbriggan Rd, Skerries to change porch design and make other alterations at 18 Balbriggan Rd, Skerries. Decisions to grant and refuse permission (split decision) were made in respect of the following applications: Orticane Ltd, College Rd, Rock Rd, Blackrock for first floor extension to the existing inn accommodation and 4 no. apartments to the rear of the site at Malting House Inn, 47 Holmpatrick, Skerries. Catherine Mullarkey, 9 Percy Lane, Dublin 4 for general modifications as floors: two storey extension to rear elevation housing stairs, two new porches to front elevation replacing existing, new roof lights to rear elevation including demolition of outhouses adjacent to dwelling and new farmyard boundary wall at Richardstown, Ballyboughal. Requests for time extensions were submitted and accepted in respect of the following applications: Stuart and Julie Curtis, Roachview, Naul for one bungalow and biocycle system on three quarter acre site 250 metres from Naul village on Balbriggan Rd. Skerries RFC c/o Hon. Sec. TP. McDonald, Skerries RFC, Holmpatrick, Skerries for extension and alterations to existing clubhouse at Holmpatrick, Skerries. G. Rutledge, The White House, Newpark, The Ward for dormer bungalow and biocycle unit at Newpark, The Ward. Overstone Ltd, 59 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2 for side and rear extension consisting domestic extension, 1 apartment and office accommodation in two storeys at 1 Milton Tce, Swords. Michael McGreal, 12C Thormanby Rd, Howth to relocate entrance at 12C Thormanby Rd, Howth. P. Hughes, 3 Baskin Cottages, Cloghran for bungalow at rear at 3 Baskin Cottages, Cloghran. Main Street Coffee Company, Coney Hill, Bremore townland, Balbriggan for demolition of the existing building to reinstate with a 3 storey building in part. The building will comprise of 2 no shops on the ground floor offices and 1 apartment on the first floor and two no. apartments on the second floor, making a total of 3 no. 1 bedroom apartments at 17 Bridge St, fronting on Quay St, Balbriggan. Ben Developments, Hazelbrook House, Kinsella Bus. Park, Kinsella for construction of 16 no. detached dormer type dwellings on site at sites 41 to 56 inclusive Beaverbrook, Beaverstown, Donabate. Grainne Kelleher, Corrstown, Kilsallaghan for 4 bedroom detached house at Corrstown, Kilsallaghan. Mr. and Mrs. P. O'Scanaill, 141 Deerpark, Ashbourne for two storey house, garage, stables and veterinary clinic comprising of consulting room, 6 stables, feed room, hayshed, machinery shed and menage, all with associated biocycle treatment plants and percolation areas and proposed new entrance and boundary treatment at Tobergregan, Garristown. C. Gorman, Runpoint, Thormanby Rd, Howth for 4 no. 2 bedroom units and 2 no. 1 bedroom units at site between Ardvarna and Brymore Nursing Home, Thormanby Rd, Howth. Hennerwood Ltd, 67 Balglass Estate, Howth for demolition of Miniville and erection of an apartment block consisting of 2 no. 3 bedroom units and 8 no. 2 bedroom units at Miniville, Thormanby Rd, Howth. Peter and Celine Costello, Innisfail, Old Portmarnock Rd to demolish sub-standard extension structure to side, flat roofed rear extensions and out buildings, to two bedroom semi-detached single storey cottage and erect new accommodation to include three bedrooms in pitched roofed replacement structures and from return on two levels, to rear, remove sub-standard septic tank and replace with biocycle treatment system to front, set back gate, from drive and car standing at Innisfail, Old Portmarnock Rd. G. & D. Bollard, 52 Orlynn Park, Lusk for dormer dwelling and biocycle system at Station Rd Lusk. L. Halpin, 4 Millbank Court, Rush for dwelling and biocycle system at Piercetown, Skerries. T. Moore, Jordanstown, Lusk for dormer dwelling and biocycle system at Skerries Rd, Lusk. Rufina Shiel, Lebong, Estuary Rd, Malahide for new dormer bungalow and biocycle at Estuary Rd, Malahide. A. Carrick, Channel Rd, Rush for dormer bungalow and biocycle unit on side at Crescent Rd, Rush. The following applications were withdrawn: R. Rennicks, 9 Old Haystown, Rush for dwelling at rear at 9 Old Haystown, Rush. Laurence Gogan, The Bungalow, Garristown for new dormer dwelling and associated site works at Baldwinstown Rd, Garristown. Redview Properties, Bellinstown, Ballyboughal for 5 garages adjoining recently constructed apartments at Main St, Ballyboughal. APPEALS NOTIFIED BY AN BORD PLEANALA The following appeals against Fingal County Council's decision to refuse permission have been notified by An Bord Pleanala: William Kelly for dormer bungalow at site 3, Sprout Rd, Rogerstown, Rush. Irish Farm and Garden Machinery Ltd for retention of temporary offices (portakabins) at Hazelbrook, Malahide. DECISIONS OF AN BORD PLEANALA An Bord Pleanala has decided to refuse permission in respect of the following appeals against Fingal County Council's decisions to grant permission: J. Culliney for porch to front at 9 Binn Eadair View, Sutton. The following appeals against Fingal County Council's decision to grant permission were withdrawn: Flynn and O'Flaherty (Dublin) Ltd for alterations to existing permission for town centre facilities at Milton House, words with access off the Malahide Rd and boundaries also to the N1 Dual Carriageway, Carlton Court, The Paddocks, Briargate and the rear of 73 to 102 Dublin Rd and Miltonfields, rear of Superquinn and including 2 storey commercial development of total gross floor area 31,126 sq. m. incorporating supermarket, three 3 anchor stores, 35 shop units, two restaurants, two storey mall, and ancillary areas at ground, first and second floor levels. The application is for alterations and extension to the existing permitted development on an extended site to include also Mount Gamble on the Malahide Rd. The application is also for the following alterations: - a total additional gross floor area of 6, 259 sq. m. including storage, malls, stairways and retail space at the northern end of the approved shopping mall. - An additional supermarket of 2,698 sq. m. net retail floor area to replace that existing on the adjoining Superquinn site on Dublin d, in lieu of one previously permitted anchor store. - A reduction 8 sq. m. gross floor area of other anchor store. - An additional gross floor area of 3,362 sq.m. of other shop units; in an increased total of 49 units and - Revisions to external elevations including northern mall entrance and corridor/shop configuration and to roof treatment north and west of enclosed mall; at Milton House (townlands of Miltonfields and Barrysparks), Swords, Co. Dublin. 
