housing
{  
    July 26 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/wall-at-housing-scheme-orough-council-responds-to-social-apartheid-claims-27522669.html }
Sligo Borough Council has responded to criticism that it engaged in 'social apartheid' after it emerged that twenty-five social houses in a new private housing estate were walled off from the rest of the development. Social housing tenants will not be able to access their new homes through the new estate at Rusheen Ard, Caltragh, but will have to use a route through an existing local authority estate. Rusheen Ard, built by McInerney Homes Ltd, was launched in September 2004, offering three and four bedroom houses for sale at prices ranging from ?218,000 to ?243,000. Controversy has arisen in recent weeks over the location of the social housing element of the development within the scheme and the fact that a wall was built, separating twenty-five social houses from the rest of the estate.  Report In a detailed report to the July General Purposes of Sligo Borough Council, Senior Executive Architect, Mr. Sean Martin, explained that the houses in question were delivered through Part V of the Planning and Development Act, 2000, as amended. This process of working with private developers to secure social and affordable housing was relatively new and generally presented challenges to local authorities and developers in negotiating agreements – which was the experience nationally. Sligo Borough Council adopted as policy a proactive approach in setting out to achieve social and affordable housing through the Part V concept, he said. Outlining the background to the McInerney development at Caltragh, Mr. Martin explained that a planning application in respect of the scheme was submitted on December 3rd, 2003. He said the delivery of Part V could be achieved in a number of ways in consultation with the developer, by the offer of a monetary contribution, the offer of land or the offer of housing units. In accepting an offer of housing units on site, the decision was further presented as to how these units would be located throughout the estate – either distributed or clustered. A decision on this would be reached in the unique context of each development. Sligo Borough Council was satisfied that the Part V housing units achieved contributed positively to its existing housing stock in the area. The amount of units or land that was to be transferred to the local authority was determined by the local authority's housing strategy document, he pointed out.  Strategy The housing strategy document analysed the housing supply and deficits within the functional area of the local authority and made a recommendation in the percentage terms as to how that deficit could be met. This could be set to a maximum of twenty per cent and could specify the proportionality of the types of housing to be provided, social or affordable. The Sligo Borough Council housing strategy adopted a flexible approach in the way the twenty per cent could be applied. For example, all social units or all affordable, or a combination of each. At the time of discussions with McInerney Homes, the Borough Council had not completed any Part V agreements but was concluding negotiations with another developer in relation to six units at Holborn Street, which had now been completed and occupied.  Positive Notwithstanding the participation of the other developer and McInerney Homes, Sligo Borough Council were at that time experiencing considerable resistance from developers to the Part V process, Mr. Martin revealed. At that time, much of the housing provision was centred around unzoned, and therefore Part V exempt lands which were the subject of tax relief, in Sligo County and bordering counties. This was typified in the scale of development now taking place in Grange, Collooney, Ballisodare, Coolaney and Dromahair in County Leitrim for example. The discussions were approached in a positive and proactive way by McInerney Homes and centred around the Borough Council's housing needs, said Mr. Martin. These meetings were generally attended by representatives of McInerney Homes and officials from Sligo Borough Council's housing, planning and architectural departments. House types such as 2 beds, 3 beds etc were discussed together with possibilities for a mix of tenure such as social or affordable housing were discussed and considered by McInerney Homes. On the basis of the demographics of the housing list, the primary demand for housing in the Sligo Borough Council functional area was for 2 bed units which would cater for a variety of existing client profiles. "Following our pre-planning discussions, McInerney Homes formulated an offer of 25 social units consisting of fourteen 3 bed houses and eleven 2 bed houses, together with eight affordable 3 bed houses as part of their Part V submission to accompany their planning application", Mr. Martin explained. He added that these houses were clustered.  Social housing The location and access to the social housing units were adjacent to and from an existing cul-de-sac in the Sligo Borough Council housing scheme at Cornageeha. At the design stage, the layout of the Sligo Borough Council scheme at Cornageeha allowed for further development of this scheme to adjacent sites to the east or north if they became available. It was felt that access to the proposed Part V scheme from the existing Sligo Borough Council scheme provided a positive impact on the existing cul-de-sac in the Council scheme by opening up a larger open space that would link to the existing small unused green space at this location, thus providing a second usable open space within the estate. Negotiations did not take place in relation to the dispersal of units within the entire scheme being proposed by McInerney Homes. This Part V negotiation represented one of the early experiences from both the authority's and the developers' point of view and approaches were constantly being reviewed and examined in order to achieve desired results as experiences was gained both at national and local level "In the light of the issues of maintenance and management of Local Authority Housing, the concept of interdispersing as opposed to clustering of Part V units in private estates was being monitored and reviewed", Mr. Martin added. He confirmed that a wall had been constructed between the proposed Part V housing scheme and the McInerney Homes development. He added that Part V negotiations would always be different from project to project. Location, site context and topography, type of development, mixed use, commercial, residential housing estates, or apartment dwellings all had to be examined on their individual merits and what was best for Sligo Borough Council as the housing provider, its clients, and what would be acceptable to the Department of Environment, Heritage and Local Government in relation to site planning and overall costs, including management company and maintenance costs. "In this case, Sligo Borough Council considered that the scheme which is of the highest quality was best accessed from the Sligo Borough scheme for the above reasons", Mr. Martin said. The scheme was submitted to the Department of Environment, Heritage and Local Government, he added. "Sligo Borough Council is committed to achieving social integration and responding to the needs of those on the social and affordable housing lists. "The Council is satisfied at having achieved thirty-three much needed new homes in Sligo City which will be occupied by families by the end of the summer", Mr. Martin concluded. Responding to the report, councillors repeated their criticism of the way the estate was allowed to be developed.  Annoyed Clr. Sean MacManus said he was deeply annoyed over the issue. The Borough Council's top priority should be to encourage social inclusion, not social segregation. Clr. Jimmy McGarry said the scheme was a form of 'social apartheid' and he hoped the Borough Council would never allow such a situation to ever occur again. Clr. Chris MacManus complained that there was a perception that those on the Borough Council's housing list were 'second class citizens' The meeting adopted a motion put forward by Clr. Sean MacManus calling on the Borough Council to emphasise in all future negotiations regarding Part V housing that such houses be dispersed throughout developments. The motion asked that the Borough Council's housing strategy be amended to reflect this change, and that the adoption of the motion was in the interest of improved social integration. 
