housing
{  
    March 10 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/planning-in-fingal-27783317.html }
PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 21/02/00   PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 21/02/00 Miss L. Rogan, 36 Martine Court, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for new two storey 3 bedroomed detached house with garage, driveway, entrance gates and boundary walls at 20 Mourne Close, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Aer Lingus Facilities Engineer, Services Annex, Dublin, for retention of 2 no. portacabin units for office/classroom accommodation Airport, Co. Dublin adjacent to Aer Lingus Head Office Building, West Link Road, Dublin Airport. Aer Lingus Faciities Engineer, Services Annex, Dublin Airport, Co. Dublin. for tetention of portacabin unit for office accommodation.adjacent to Aer Lingus T.A.S.C. Building, Corballis Road North, Dublin Airport. Dr. Sam Naser, 16A Greenfield Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, for change of use of two ground floor reception rooms from residential to use as doctor's surgery and waiting room at 179 Howth Road, Sutton, Dublin 13. Mr. William Condron, Tyrrelstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission is sought for 4 bedroomed single storey dwelling house and biocycle unit. at Tyrrelstown Big Townland, Lusk, Co. Dublin. J.and C. Harford, St. Pauls, Lower Main St., Rush, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing house and construct 4 new apartmentsin one two storey block at Convent Lane, Rush, Co. Dublin. Mr. Kevin Rickard. 23 St. Lawrence's Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing kitchen extension and wall. To rebuild a new kitchen extension together with a 1 bedroom, kitchen/ sitting room extension to the side at 23 St. Lawrence's Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin. Ms. Mary Shiels, Leas Cross, Swords, Co. Dublin, for new granny flat attached to side of existing dwelling at Leas Cross, Swords, Co. Dublin. N.and C. Gorman, Howth Hill Lodge Nursing Home, Thormanby Road, Howth, for alterations and extension including additional floor over part of existing building at Howth Hill Lodge Nursing Home, Thormanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Mr. Gerard Donovan, 'Grange House', Ballyboghil, Co. Dublin. for Mansard roof 5 bedroom extension over already approved ground floor swimming pool and games room at the rear.at Grange House', Ballyboghil, Co. Dublin. Michael and Evelyn Kenna, 22 Ard na Mara, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for single storey bungalow and exit adjoining 22 Ard na Mara, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Keely Group, Unit 37, Grange Parade, Baldoyle Ind. Est., Dublin 13, .for extension of warehouse to rear at Unit 37 Grange Parade, Baldoyle Industrial Est., Dublin 13. Ms. Helen Grant, 16 Kenure Park, Rush, Co. Dublin, for bungalow at Walshes Lane at Walshes Lane, off Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Noonan Construction Ltd, 13 Mellifont Avenue, Dun Laoghaire, Co. Dublin, for three single storey dwellings designed for persons with reduced mobility/wheelchair users at Hampton Place, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Mr. Michael Martin, 12 Mountjoy Square, Dublin 1, for change of use from garage utility unit to light agricultural metal workshop unit, with signage at Kinsealy Service Station, Malahide Road, Kinsealy. Barry Hill, c/o Mr. Dargan, Killeek Lane, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for extension to rear of existing cottage with a new dormer roof comprising of two bedrooms and ensuites with dormer windows to rear also for internal changes to existing cottage and for a new biocycle unitat Ballymadun, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Anthony Pyne, 14 Bremore Cottages, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to erect granny flat type extension to rear of dwelling and including provision of bay window and extension to side of existing dwelling at 14 Bremore Cottages, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. John and Jacinta Harris, Newtown, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for retention of new biocycle unit to replace old septic tank at Newtown, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. L'Arche Community, 10 Warrenhouse Road, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for alterations and rear single storey extension, and change of use from dwelling to residential home at 10 Warrenhouse Road, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. Vincent MacNally, Pillar House, Naul, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing dwelling house and replace with a new 2 storey house with connections to existing main sewerage and water at Naul, Co. Dublin, t T. and A. Flood, 3 Templeville Ave., Templeogue, Dublin 6W, for construction of 8 no. detached two storey dwellings comprising 2 different house types [all with separate garages] and for associated site works comprising a new carriageway, driveways, walls, post and rail timber fencing, drainage and waste water treatment systems at Rowlestown, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. J. Butler, 1 Dooroge, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow, biocycle unit and vehicular entrance on an already approved site [Reg. Ref. No. F99A/304) at Mainscourt, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin  LIST OF DECISIONS MADE FROM 14/02/2000 TO 18/02/2000 Decisions to GRANT APPROVAL were made in respect of the following applications:- APPLICANT: Eastern Health Board, Dr. Steevens' Hospital, Dublin 8, for single storey Community Unit for Older People with a 50 bed Residential Unit and a Day Care Facility with a sewage treatment plant at Station Road, adjacent to Orlynn Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Decisions to GRANT OUTLINE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications:- Mr. L. Fynes, Breffni House, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission to erect a dormer bungalow, grading shed and biocycle waste treatment system at Balcunnin, Skerries, Co. Dublin. J. Archer, Balcunnin, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for two dwellings with biological sewage units at Balcunnin, Skerries, Co. Dublin. P. McLoughlin, "Lisselan", Barrenhill, Sutton, Dublin 13, for proposed bungalow dwelling at Lisselan, Barrenhill, Sutton, Dublin 13. P. Gorman, Belgannon, Old Coach Road, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co.Dublin, for outline planning permission sought for proposed dwelling and entrance to road at Old Coach Road, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to GRANT PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications:- Ben & Rebecca Hemeryck, 44c Adelphi Quay, Waterford City, to construct a two storey dwelling, detached garage, biocycle waste water treatment system and form new road entrance at Coolquay, The Ward, Co. Dublin Station Construction, Brian Reilly, Connasbeth, Fairyhouse Road, Dunboyne, Co Meath, for 166 two storey dwellings at Mooretown, Rathbeale, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mrs. F. Campbel, "Aberfoyle", 21 Balkill Road, Howth, Dublin 13, for driveway entrance at ‘Aberfoyle", 21 Balkill Road, Howth, Dublin 13. S. Coffey, Convent Lane, Rush, Co. Dublin, for dormer dwelling and garage at Sundrive Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Eileen Jones, Corduff, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and Biocycle waste treatment unit at Corduff, Lusk, Co. Dublin. S. Smyth, Ballisk, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for dormer dwelling at Ballisk, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Highpark Dev. & Monteverdi Dev. Ltd, 25 Merrion Square, Dublin 2, for revisions to existing permission (for 352 number dwelling units ref. no. F97A/0842) to comprise minor changes to layout at two sites numbered 2 and 3 and alternative house type and layout at two sites numbered 4 and 5 at The View, Kelly's Bay, Balbriggan Road, adjacent to Northcliffe Heights, Skerries. A. Smyth, Clonmethan, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for bungalow, biocycle unit, percolation area, widening existing entrance gates to double entrance, and associated site works at Glebe, Clonmethan, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. S. Heffernan, Coach Road, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing single storey habitable house and to construct 2 no. 3 bedroom 2 storey dwelling houses at Coach Road, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Ellier Developments Limited, 11 Woodstown Centre, Knocklyon, Dublin 16, for minor internal and external amendments comprising of the provision of extended kitchen/breakfast area formed within the plane of the existing roof, with a roof balcony formed off same on the east elevation and roof lights to the west elevation to penthouse apartments 23 and 24 of Block 4 of previously approved scheme (reg. ref. no.F97A/0372) at lands bounded by Howth Road, Offington Avenue and Deerpark Golf Course. E. Mahon, Doolagh, Stamullen, Co. Dublin, to change from septic tank to puraflo effluent treatment at Rath, Doolagh, Stamullen, Co. Dublin. P. Mahon, Doolagh, Stamullen, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and puraflo effluent treatment system at Rath, Doolagh, Stamullen, Co. Dublin. C. Devine, 44 The Park, Orlynn Park, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for revised dwelling type and biocycle system on approved site at Great Common, Lusk, Co. Dublin. J. & C. O'Neill, 6 The Avenue, Lissenhall, Seatown Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for dormer dwelling and garage at Seatown Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Noel and John McAuley, Chapel Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin, for 2 dormer bungalows at Cabin Hill, The Naul, Co. Dublin. Rohan Holdings Limited, 5 Mount Street Crescent, Dublin 2, for 5 no. warehouse buildings (ref. unit K, L, M, N & O) including ancillary two-storey offices in Units L, M, N & O and three storey offices in Unit K, sub-division of Unit M into two units and Unit "O" into three units, "O" being light industrial/warehousing, ESB sub-station in Unit K & M, ancillary site works to all units, new spur road together with associated services off of existing estate road for which planning permission was previously granted, Reg. Ref. 86A/1328, F93A/0010 and F95A/0094 at Furry Park Industrial Estate, Santry, Dublin 9. C.L.G. Naomh Mearnog, 140 Ardilaun, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for proposed new entrance porch and erection of 3 no. new flag poles at Naomh Mearnog GAA Club House, St. Helens, Blackwood Lane, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. J. Wade Developments, Castleland, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for construction of 7 no. four bedroomed, two storey houses (3 no. semi detached blocks and 1 no. detached) on vacant sites located between existing dwellings no. 32 and 35 and no. 40 and 43 Castlelands at 43 Castlelands, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Noel Coyle, 31 The Warren, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for two storey dwelling, double garage and biocycle waste water treatment system at site no. 7. former Naomh Marnog GAA Sports Field at site no. 7 former Naomh Marnog GAA Sports Field, Blackwood Lane, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Aer Lingus, Facilities Engineering Services Annex, Dublin Airport, Dublin, for retention of change of use of existing plant room on 3rd floor level to offices and the construction of a new plant room at 4th floor level at Personnel & Catering Building, Aer Lingus, Dublin Airport. Aer Lingus, Facilities Engineering Services Annex Dublin Airport, Dublin, for retention of 8 no. portacabin units for office/ classroom accommodation and toilet facilities adjacent West Link Road at West Link Road, Dublin Airport, Dublin. Jeremiah Davis, 20 Cherry Park, Swords, for ground floor kitchen and first floor bedroom extension to the rear including 2 no. velux roof lights to the front at 20 Cherry Park, Swords, Co. Dublin. D. Samway, 49 Balkill Park, Howth, Co. Dublin, to retain garage to void under extension, side door in lieu of window and increased size of window to side at first floor (to already approved plans reg. ref. nos. F98B/0413 and F99B/0377) at 49 Balkill Park, Howth, Co. Dublin Ronan Givans, 13 Ormond Drive, Swords, Co. Dublin. for single storey extension at side at 13 Ormond Drive, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. Paddy Corrigan, 54 Rivervalley Grove, Swords, Co. Dublin, for front porch and and single side extension at 54 River Valley Grove, Swords, Co. Dublin. B. Devaney,6 St. Margarets Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for ground floor extension to rear, first floor extension to side, dormer window to attic and alterations to front elevation at 6 St. Margarets Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. Colm Ingle, 44 Carrickhill Rise, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, revisions to previously approved kitchen cum diningroom extension at rear at rear of 44 Carrickhill Rise, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. R. Morgan, 9 High Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for proposed single storey extension to the rear at: 9 High Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Mr. Tony Corbally, Westpalstown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to the sides and front of an existing dormer bungalow incorporating 4 new bay windows, and a new chimney at Westpalstown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Albert & Ruth Harding, Windwood, Deerpark, Howth, Co. Dublin, for ground and first floor extension to existing dormer bungalow at Winwood, Deer Park, Howth, Co. Dublin. H. Daly, 2 Seabury Green, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for proposed two storey extension at the side and rearat 2 Seabury Green, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. P. J. Murray, 23 Brookdale Park, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to front, side and rear at 23 Brookdale Park, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin. R. Collins, Cobbels Hill, Lispopple Cross, Swords, Co. Dublin, to construct no. 1 single storey 2 bedroom, livingroom, bathroom extension, no. 1 single storey garage extension, no. 3 conservatory extension all to existing dormer bungalow at: Cobbels Hill, Lispopple Cross, Swords, Co. Dublin. James Carvin, 1 Pinewood Green Hill, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for single storey pitched roof extension to side and front. at 1 Pinewood Green Hill, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin.  Requests for CLARIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications:- APPLICANT: Fingal Swimming Pool Association, c/o 10 Town Parks, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for the proposed construction of a swimming pool facility with a 25m pool, learner pool,spectator area, changing rooms, plant rooms, meeting rooms and ancillary room; carparking (100 spaces) and access road at the Ballast Pit, off Dublin Road, Skerries.  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications:- V. Todd, Sunset Crag, Hoar Rock, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for demolition of existing dwelling and construction of two dwellings at Sunset Crag, Hoar Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin. V. Campbell, The Burrow, Portrane, Co. Dublin, for change of use of an existing residence to a creche facility, minor internal alterations, external elevational changes and formation of car parking area at "Casa-Mare", The Burrow, Portrane, Co. Dublin. The Island Golf Club Corballis, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for retnetion of fill in use as car park at the The Island Golf Club Corballis, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Leo Fynes, Ballaghstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin, to build 20 pitch touring caravan and camper van park (opening times April to September inclusive), reception building, associated car parking and access road and Envirocare Biodics foul treatment system behind the residence at Ballaghstown, Lusk, Co Dublin. E. Kelly, Moyvilla, Burrow Road, Portrane, Co. Dublin, for dormer dwelling at Burrow Road, Portrane, Donabate, Co. Dublin Noel Hickey, Bohill, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to build two storey dweling house, septic tank and percolation area (outline permission ref. F99A/0993) at Bohill Townland, Balbriggan, Co Dublin. Gannon Homes Ltd, 41-43 Shelbourne Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4, to build Phase 2 of proposed village, on lands north of Glen Ellan, Swords, Co. Dublin. accessed from existin distributor road and roundabout to include 4 no. retail units, 20 no. one and two bedroom apartments in four blocks, 56 no. two bedroom and 4 no. three bedroom duplex townhouses over 60 no. one bedroom garden level apartments, 3 no. one bedroom, 5 no. two bedrooms and 3 no. three bedroom mews houses, 8 no. three bedroom townhouses and associated roads and infrastructures at lands north of Glen Ellan, Swords, Co. Dublin. Matthew Magrane, Kitchenstown, The Naul, Co. Dublin, for shop front and all necessary alterations to existing premises at 7 Bridge Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. D. Langan, Laguna, Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for detached house and biocycle waste water treatment unit at Palmer Road, Rush. V. Melinn, 57 Offington Avenue, Sutton, Dublin 13, for single storey extensions to side and rear new front porch, conversion of attic with dormer windows to front and rear and alterations to front elevation at 57 Offington Avenue, Sutton, Dublin 13.  Decisions to REFUSE OUTLINE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Martin Reel, 131 Cherry Avenue, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin, for outline permission to erect a bungalow and biocycle unit at Johnstown, Lusk. Maureen Doyle, O'Connors Pub, Ballyboghill, Co. Dublin, for two storey 2/3 bed houses at rear of O’Connors Pub, Ballyboghill, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to REFUSE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: J. Watson, Lanistown House, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for erection of a 2 storey dwelling and garage with waste water treatment system at Kilcrea, Donabate, Co. Dublin. K. Gilmer, 25 Thormanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for conversion of existing dormer bungalow, into a two bedroom apartment on the ground floor and for a one bedroom apartment on the first floor at 25 Thormanby Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. D. Mongey, 45 Main Street, Swords, Co. Dublin, for development of 3 storey over basement office and commercial development at rear of 45 Main Street, with further 4 storey block containing 1 retail unit and 9 apartments in 4 storey development to the east of the proposed New Street, together with basement car parking area and ramp to same off proposed New Street. Permission includes demolition of existing garage building on site at 45 Main Street, Swords. Swiftcourt Developments Ltd., Eagle House, Wentworth, Eblana Villas, Dublin 2, for mixed use residential and commercial development to include 115 no. apartments, comprising 1,2,3 bed units and 3 bed duplex units 17 no. 3 and 4 bedroom townhouses, commercial block with retail and office use fronting Portrane Road, ranging in height from 2 storey on the Portrane Road, through 3 storey to 3 1/2 storeys to the rear of the site. Single storey library building, part two storey creche, civic space/sculpture site fronting Portrane Road, surface and underground car parking with associated site development works and proposed vehicular access to Donabate Train Station lands at site at rear of Donabate Neighbourhood Centre and fronting Portrane Road, Ballisk, Donabate, Co., Dublin. Tom Rickard, "Denard", South Shore Road, Rogerstown, Rush, for retention of tower to the rear of Denard, at "Denard", South Shore Road, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin. Paul Fogarty, 56 Sea View Park, Portrane, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension to side of existing dwelling to include one number self contained unit to ground floor at 56 Sea View Park, Portrane, Co. Dublin. B. & N. Gargan, Deanstown, Balheary, Swords, Co. Dublin, for 1 and 2 storey extension to stone cottage, garage and septic tank at Deanstown, Balheary, Swords, Co. Dublin. The Island Golf Club, Corballis, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for relocation of entrance, at the the Island Golf Club, Corballis, Donabate, Co. Dublin. The Rybo Partnership, c/o BCM Hanby Wallace, Solicitors, 1 High Street, Dublin 8, for development comprising: the partial demolition of the return of the existing 3 storey house, which is a List 2 structure (Map 7, res. no. 6 - terrace and front railings), and which is presently arranged in 7 flats and 6 bedsit units; the complete refurbishment of the retained 3 storey house, and its conversion to 3 no. 2-bed and 3 1-bed apartments; the construction of a new 2 storey extension to the rear of the house, comprising 2 no. 2 bed apartments, and the erection of a new 3 storey over basement annex in the rear garden of the house, comprising 27 no. 2-bed apartments, with a 32 car residents only basement car park with vehicular access via the private up-graded laneway to the rear of the property accessing onto St. Margarets Road, together with all ancillary associated site development and landscaping works, all on a site of some 2241 sq. m at 1 Castle Terrace, Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin.. Eugene Murray, Gormanston Road, Stamullen, Co. Meath, for new 2-storey dwelling, proprietary effluent treatment system, farm building for the keeping of cattle and associated site works at Whitestown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Amy Gannon, Bayview House, Carrickbrack Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for two storey house and conversion of sheds to stables, jump enclosure at the College Farm at The College Farm, Hayestown, The Balbriggan/Naul Road and Belgee Road, Co. Dublin. E. White, Kilbush Lane, Rush, Co. Dublin, for new shed for domestic use and the storage and some building equipment to rear of existing house at Kilbush Lane, Rush, Co. Dublin. Starfinch Ltd, Bettyville, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for nursing home comprising of 52 bedroom unit including Alzheimer Unit, ancillary accommodation, staff accommodation at first floor level, 18 no. car spaces, Biocycle effluent treatment plant and associated site works at Seatown Road, Seatown, Swords, Co. Dublin. Marie McGlone, Troodos, Jordanstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin, to build one two storey house at Moonlawn Lane, Naul, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. P. McHale, 1 Binn Eadair View, Howth, Dublin 13, for demolition of existing two storey house and construction of new two storey house, and separate single-storey garden building at Thalassa, 156 Howth Road, Sutton, Dublin 13. T. Savage and T. Prone, 4 Shielmartin Park, Sutton, Co. Dublin, for alterations and extensions to existing house, involving (a) single storey extension to the front; (b) alterations to front and rear fascia; (c) removal of existing clerestory roof light and provision of new clerestorey roof light; (d) demolition of two existing chimneys and erection of new chimney in different position; (e) extension to the rear at ground floor and lower ground floor levels and (f) provision of new timber deck structure to the rear at 4 Shielmartin Park, Sutton, Co. Dublin. P. Webster, 43 Main Street, Howth, Co. Dublin, for partial demolition of existing garage, and its replacement with family room at 36a Main Street, Howth, Co,. Dublin.  Requests for Site Notice in accordance with Article 16 of the Local Government (Planning and Development) Regulations 1994 were made in respect of the following applications:- Marian Homes Ltd., Manderley, Coast Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 1 additional detached 4 bedroomed house adjoining no. 4 at 4 The Courtyard, Parkview, Brackenstown Road, Swords. Mr. Christy Dowler, 5 Hilltown Green, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin. for erection of new 2 storey 3 bedroom detached house to side and new vehicular entrance to front at 13 Hilltown Lawn, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin. Gannon Homes Limited, 41-43 Shelbourne Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4, for change of use of 6 no. retail units to 12 no. one bedroom garden level apartments to phase 1 of proposed village on lands north of Glen Ellan, Swords. Lark Developments Ltd., Ardfield House, Old Lucan Road, Lucan, Co. Dublin, for previously granted planning permission (final grant order no. P/3519/99) for a new retail food outlet and cafe with ancillary site works and fencing at Rosemount Business Park, Ballycoolin, Dublin 11. Dave and Lucy Gibson, 140 Kelvin Close, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for side extension with tiled roof over and rear extension with flat roof at 140 Kelvin Close, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. D. Behan, 8 Forest Court, River Valley, Swords, Co. Dublin, for first floor extension to rear of dwelling at 8 Forest Court, River Valley, Swords, Co. Dublin.  Requests for TIME EXTENSIONS in accordance with Section 26(4a) of the Local Government Time Ext. up to and incl. 19/05/00: Industrial Development Agency of Ireland Wilton Park House, Wilton Place, Dublin 2, for Site Development works for the 120 Acres Fingal Business and Manufacturing Park at Clonshaugh/Belcamp, including main entrance onto the M50 extension and emergency entrance onto Stockhole Lane. An Environmental Impact Statement accompanied the application. Time Ext. up to and incl. 10/05/00: Thomas Harvey Esq., 1 Main Street, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for erection of Endeavour Centre to replace existing abattoir at rear of 1 Main Street, Malahide, Co. Dublin Time Ext. up to and incl. 19/04/00: The Ward, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Development of a mixed use Industry and Business Park comprising of 3 no. single storey industrial buildings with 2 storey ancillary offices and single storey Production/ warehouse space of total area 2,100 sq.m. each, 5 no. single-storey industrial buildings with 2 storey ancillary offices and single storey Production/Warehouse spare, of total area 4,150 sq.m. each, 1 no Single storey industrial building with 2 st6orey ancillary offices and single storey Production/Warehouse space, of total area 6,35 sq.m., 1 no. single storey industrial building of total area 2460 sq.m. comprising of 10 no. self contained Office, Production and Warehouse/Storage Units, 1 no. single storey Industrial building of total area 2952 sq.m comprising of 12 no self-contained Office, Production and Warehouse/Storage Units, 2 no. 3 storey Office Buildings of total area2,100 sq. m. each; Associated site works, including access road from county road to East, landscaping including 3,500 sq. m surface water. Retention Pond and Perimeter fence; A Security Control Kiosk, 3 no. Entrance Signs and miscellaneous directional signs; - 1 no. Tertiary Sewage Treatment Plant and associated Control Room and separate access road from county road to East; - Road widening to R121 to southy of site and to county road to east of site, on their 15.5 hectare site. Environmental Impact Statement will accompany this application and this will be available at the office of the Fingal County Council Planning Dept., along with any further information in relation to the proposed development which may be furnished to Fingal Co. Council in the course of consideration of the application. Time Ext. up to and incl. 31/03/00: J. Monks, Springhill, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for biocycle effluent treatment system to replace existing septic tank at Springhill, Garristown, Townland of Grallagh. Time Ext. up to and incl. 31/03/00: C. Monks, Springhill, Garristown, Townland of Grallagh, for bungalow and biocycle effluent treatment system at Springhill, Garristown, Townland of Grallagh. Time Ext. up to and incl. 03/03/00: Eugene Melia, c/o Andrews, Blackhall, Balrothery, Co. Dublin, for dwelling and septic tank at Darcystown, Balrothery, Co. Dublin.  APPEALS NOTIFIED BY AN BORD PLEANALA Nature of council’s decision: DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION 14/02/00: Peter Purcell Balcarrick, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for extension to and conversion of Martello Tower to residence to include Bio-Cycle drainage system DECISION GRANT PERMISSION 15/02/00: G. Rutledge, Newpark, The Ward, Co. Dublin. Dormer bungalow and biocycle unit. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION 15/02/00: Jim and Mary Kelly, 32 Newtownparks, Skerries, Co. Dublin, to construct two storey house to side of existing dwelling. DECISION REFUSE OUTLINE PERMISSION 14/02/00: D. Healy, 58 Carrick Court, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, detached house to the side. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION 16/02/00: Centenary Holding Ltd, lands bounded by the Oldtown Road and the Link Road to the Ward (opposite St. Margarets Golf and County Club), Skephubble, Co. Dublin, for 24 one and two storey houses bounded by the Oldtown Road and the Link Road to The Ward (opposite St. Margaret's Golf and Country Club) with access from the Oldtown Road. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION 15/02/00: Mr. Gerard Donovan, Grange House, Ballyboghil, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension to rear to incorporate five bedrooms at first floor level, swimming pool, changing room and gamesroom on ground floor. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION 15/02/00: K.C. Commercials Ltd., Posie Row, Kinsealy, Dublin 17, for retention of 2.4m high palasade fencing along front boundary and for permission to install new truck parking area to front/side of site. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION 15/02/00: Kevin Byrne & Fiona Burke, Lower Road, Strawberry Beds, Co. Dublin. to reinstate former dwelling houses to relocate existing vehicular entrance.  DECISIONS OF AN BORD PLEANALA APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission  COUNCILS DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION  Location: from Carrickbrack road on lands adjacent to Barren Hill Crossroads, Howth, Co. Dublin. and connecting to existing public right of way crossing Shielmartin Hill.  PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: public right of way. Right of way to be 2m in width with timber palisade fence to one side, new steps from Carrickbrack Road and finished with rounded pebbles  APPLICANT: G. Gannon  APPEAL DECIDED: 15/02/00 APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION GRANT PERMISSION Location: 24 Main Street, Howth. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Bungalow on site to rear with new vehicular entrance from St. Nessans Terrace, Howth. APPLICANT: D. Caulfield  APPEAL DECIDED: 14/02/00 APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION Location: 25 Clonard Street, Balbriggan PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Demolition of existing dwelling and replacement with a two storey block of 7 apartments. APPLICANT: Mr. Martin Cauldwell  APPEAL DECIDED: 17/02/00 APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION Location: Loughoreen, 2 Howth Summit, Windgate Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Single storey cottage. APPLICANT: Kevin Lambert  APPEAL DECIDED: 15/02/00 APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION Location: "Thorndale", Northcliffe Heights, Skerries PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: To demolish granny flat and outline planning permission sought to build a bungalow. APPLICANT: Colm & Niamh Daly  APPEAL DECIDED: 16/02/00 APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION Location: Site 12B, Westhaven, Mulhuddart PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: 3 bedroom, detached house. APPLICANT: Lyngrove Developments Ltd.  APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION Location: Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Two storey dwelling and biofilter sewage treatment plant. APPLICANT: P. Andrews  APPEAL DECIDED: 15/02/00 APPEAL DECISION: To Attach Condition(s) COUNCILS DECISION GRANT PERMISSION Location: 52 Quay Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Alterations including a two storey extension. APPLICANT: Mr & Mrs A. O'Brien. 
