housing
{ Pol Ó Conghaile 
    March 15 2016 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/travel/irelands-100-best-places-to-stay-just-five-5-stars-make-the-cut-34538760.html }
McKennas' Guides has released its app of the 100 Best Places to Stay in Ireland for 2016, and it's an intriguing mix.  "Star ratings and deep-pile carpets mean little or nothing in Irish hospitality." That's according to John and Sally McKenna, for 25 years arguably the most influential couple in Ireland's food and hospitality scene. The McKennas have just published STAY 2016, the latest reboot of an app featuring their take on Ireland's 100 best places to stay. New entrants on a list that gives short shrift both to grand hotels and hipster boutiques include The Headfort Arms in Kells, Bog Bean in Roundstone, Connemara, the Cork International Hotel and Lorum Old Rectory in Carlow. Dublin's Conrad Hotel, The Europe and Killarney Park in Killarney, Monart in Co. Wexford and the Cliff House Hotel in Ardmore, Co. Waterford are the only five-stars to make the Top 100. The list is described as "a tribute to the great hospitality families of Ireland", many of whom are seeing new generations emerge - including the Kellys of Rosslare; the Foyles of Clifden; the Wheelers of Rathmullan and the O’Haras of Sligo. "Corporate-run hotels squeeze the spontaneity out of conviviality," the McKennas say. "What determines whether you have a great time is the ability of the owners to make you feel welcome, to cook you a delicious breakfast of Irish foods, and to offer you sound and sage advice on what you need to know and where you need to go to get the best from travelling through Ireland." Co. Carlow Kilgraney Country House, Bagenalstown Lorum Old Rectory, Kilgraney [NEW] Co. Cavan MacNean Townhouse, Blacklion The Olde Post Inn, Cloverhill, Butler’s Bridge Co. Clare Glencarrig Farmhouse B&B, Carrigaholt Gregan’s Castle, Ballyvaughan Hotel Doolin, Doolin Moy House, Lahinch Sheedy’s, Lisdoonvarna Stella Maris, O’Connell Street, Kilkee Vaughan Lodge Hotel, Lahinch Wild Honey Inn, Kincora Road, Lisdoonvarna 
 
Close
 Inchydoney Island Lodge and Spa, Co. Cork / Co. Cork Ballinterry House, Rathcormac, Fermoy Ballymaloe House, Shanagarry Ballyvolane House, Castlelyons, Fermoy Blindgate House,  Kinsale Bridge House, Skibbereen Cork International Hotel, Cork [NEW] Fortview House, Goleen Gallán Mór, Durrus Garnish House, Cork City The Glen, Kilbrittain Gort na nain Farm Vegetarian Guesthouse, Nohoval Gougane Barra Hotel, Macroom Grove House, Schull Inchydoney Island Lodge & Spa, Clonakilty (above) Knockeven, Cobh Lancaster Lodge, Cork City Lis-Ardagh Lodge, Union Hall Rolf’s Country House, Baltimore Hill, Baltimore River Lee Hotel, Cork Sea View House Hotel, Ballylickey Co. Donegal Castle Murray House Hotel, Dunkineely The Glen House, Clonmany The Mill Restaurant, Dunfanaghy Rathmullan House, Rathmullan Co. Dublin Aberdeen Lodge, Ballsbridge Ariel House, Lansdowne Road Brooks Hotel, Drury Street The Conrad, Earlsfort Terrace [NEW] Kelly’s Hotel, South Great George’s Street Number 31, Lower Leeson Street Pembroke Town House, Ballsbridge The White Cottages, Skerries Co. Galway Angler’s Return, Roundstone Ballynahinch Castle, Connemara Bog Bean, Roundstone, Connemara [NEW] Connemara Coast Hotel, Furbo Dolphin Beach, Clifden The Heron’s Rest, Galway The House Hotel, Galway The Huntsman Inn, Galway Inis Meáin Suites, Inis Meáin, Aran Islands Kilmurvey House, Inis Mór, Aran Islands Lough Inagh Lodge, Recess The Quay House, Clifden Renvyle House, Connemara Sea Mist House, Clifden The Stop B&B, Galway The Twelve Hotel, Barna (below) 





 
Expand






Close










 



Twelve Hotel, Galway








/







Facebook
Twitter
Email
Whatsapp








              {"id":"gpt-ad-gallery-mpu-959","adUnit":"7380\/independent.ie\/Life\/Travel\/Home","sizes":[[300,250],[300,600],[300,251]],"targeting":{"gs_channels":["gs_notprocessed"]},"lazyload":true}
            








Twelve Hotel, Galway
      
Close
 Twelve Hotel, Galway / Co. Kerry Ard na Sidhe, Killorglin Brook Lane Hotel, Kenmare Castlewood House, Dingle Heaton’s House & Restaurant, Dingle Hotel Europe, Fossa, Killarney The Killarney Park Hotel, Killarney Milltown House, Dingle QC’S, Cahersiveen, Ring of Kerry The Ross, Town Centre, Killarney Shelburne Lodge, Kenmare Co. Laois Ivyleigh House, Portlaoise Roundwood House, Mountrath Co. Limerick The Mustard Seed, Echo Lodge, Ballingarry Number One Pery Square, Limerick Co. Longford Viewmount House, Longford Co. Louth Ghan House, Carlingford Co. Mayo Bervie, Keel,  Achill Island Knockranny House, Westport Léim Siar, Blacksod, Belmullet Mulranny Park Hotel, Mulranny, Westport Stella Maris Country House Hotel, Ballycastle Co. Meath The Headfort Arms Hotel, Kells [NEW] Co. Sligo Coopershill House, Riverstown Co. Tipperary Inch House, Thurles The Old Convent, Clogheen Co. Waterford Cliff House Hotel, Ardmore Glasha Farmhouse, Ballymacarbry Richmond House, Cappoquin The Tannery Restaurant, Dungarvan Co. Westmeath Lough Bishop House, Colinstown Wineport Lodge, Glassan, Athlone Co. Wexford Kelly’s Resort Hotel, Rosslare Monart, Enniscorthy Co. Wicklow Ballyknocken House, Ashford The Brook Lodge, Macreddin Village, Aughrim Northern Ireland Beech Hill House Hotel, Derry The Carriage House, Dundrum Dufferin Coaching Inn, Killyleagh Marlagh Lodge, Ballymena Newforge House, Armagh  (below) 
 
Close
 Newforge House, Co. Armagh / Among the higher-profile properties to drop off the Top 100 this year are Dublin's Marker Hotel and the Step House in Borris, Co. Carlow. STAY 2016 is available on iTunes and Google Play at €3.99. Online Editors 
