housing
{ Donal Buckley 
    October 23 2014 03:50 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/home-garden/the-new-home-view-latest-developments-nationwide-30687948.html }
Kelly family behind energy-saving Kiltipper properties  Elder Heath  Kiltipper Rd, Dublin 24 Asking price: From €275,000 Agent: DNG (01) 4912606 A number of three bedroom semi-detached houses, are being developed at Elder Heath, which is located off the Kiltipper Road opposite the Ellensborough estate in Dublin 24. The Kelly family, who run Kelland Homes and are well-known local developers, expect to complete the first of these properties next April. Ranging in size from 1,100 to 1,154 sq ft, the three beds will be priced from €275,000. The developer is also planning four-bedroom semis with larger floor areas of 1,292 sq ft, but these will not come to the market until next year. Buyers will not need to worry about fees for managing the estate as Kelland does not intend to establish a management company. Instead the estate will be completed to a standard which will facilitate South Dublin County Council taking over the maintenance of its common areas. In the houses, the ground floor accommodation will comprise of a living room from which double doors will lead to the dining/kitchen area, as well as a utility and ground floor WC. As well as fitted kitchens, the utility rooms are shelved and plumbed for a washing machine. Upstairs there are two double bedrooms, one of which is ensuite. A single bedroom and a family bathroom are also located at this level. The bathrooms and ensuite are tiled A high A3 BER rating is being achieved with low-energy design solar photovoltaic panels for electricity savings, high standards of insulation for walls, floors and roofs, uPVC argon-filled double-glazed windows from Munster Joinery and a gas condensing boiler central heating system. In addition, each house comes fitted with a wall-mounted electric fire. Front doors are made with hardwood and fitted with a three-point security locking system, while internal doors are designed with the colonial style four panels. Wardrobes are fitted in the bedrooms. Built with timber frames, the homely tone is set by the warm red and yellow colours of the brick fronts. Each home has an alarm and is wired for TV, telephone and computers to UPC's broadband service. Contact DNG (01) 4912606 for further information. Chelmsford Manor, Celbridge, Kildare A new show house is scheduled to open in mid November for the Chelmsford Manor in Celbridge, Co. Kildare. This development will offer a choice of three and four bedroom family houses including detached, semi-detached and terraced homes. At the time of going to press the prices have not been finalised but observers of the local housing market expect that they may start at around €350,000 for the three bedroom semis and possibly €380,000 for the four bedroom semis. Coonan Real Estate Alliance (01) 6288400 is handling the sales. Developers, Montane Developments Irl Ltd, are installing a range of energy efficient features including a heat ventilation system which recovers the heat energy from the air expelled from the house, warms the incoming fresh air to facilitate a healthier living environment and it also supplies fresh air while reducing condensation and dust. Other energy features include a gas condensing boiler central heating system and solar panels. With floor areas of 1,119 sq ft, the three bedroom semis have a living room with a bay window and from to the rear of this room double doors open to the dining kitchen area. Buyers of both house types have the option of designing their own kitchen which is L- shaped and will be supplied and fitted by Bedroom Elegance. Double doors lead from the kitchen to the rear garden. The kitchen's work space is supplemented by a utility room which is plumbed for a washing machine and dryer. An attractive feature of the hallway is the red deal balustrades and walnut hand rail on the stairs. An energy efficient wood burning stove is installed in the living room. Upstairs in house types B& C the master bedroom with its ensuite and bay window is located to the front of the house. A family bathroom upstairs and a WC at ground level complete the accommodation in the three bedroom house type B. The four bedroom house type C extends to 1,536 sq ft and has a similar layout except for the extra bedroom on the first floor and the larger dimensions to a number of rooms. Cobble locked driveways and wrought iron railings are installed to the front of each house. Each house is wired with Cat 5 cabling for computer communication as well as connection of TV, telephone and broadband. The Willows, Allenwood, Naas, Kildare The Willows, in Allenwood village, Naas, offers families a choice of four-bedroom dormer bungalows with floor areas extending to 1,496 sq ft. Ground floor accommodation includes a living room, fully fitted kitchen and utility room as well as a bedroom and bathroom. The timber theme is reflected in the wooden floor in the hall as well as the oak panel internal doors. Upstairs are three bedrooms and buyers can have fitted carpets or receive an allowance of €1,800 for bedroom carpets. The master bedroom is supplemented by an ensuite shower and a walk-in-wardrobe. A separate family bathroom is also located at this level. Priced at €238,000, their A3 BER comes from energy saving features such as photovoltaic solar panels, gas-fired central heating and double glazed windows. Outside the driveway is laid with cobble and stone while both front and back gardens are seeded. Kelly Hudson Properties (045) 430336 are the agents. Show houses are currently being constructed at Coopers Wood, Chapel Road, Kinsealy in north county Dublin. Maybury Developments are building three bedroom semi-detached houses with floor areas ranging from 1,206 to 1,313 sq ft as well as some detached four bedroom homes of between 1,530 and 1,660 sq ft. Prices have yet to be confirmed but three bed semis are likely to be priced from "in the low €400,000 plus" range while the four bedroom detached homes will be in the "late €500,000s". Show houses are expected to be launched in late November this year. The development comprises 38 houses of which 30 will be semi-detached and eight detached. Each one will have full buff brick facades, private driveways and will be A rated for energy savings. Savills (01) 6181300 are handling enquiries. Melfort, Blackrock, Co Dublin Due to a cancellation, a new four bedroom home has become available at the Melfort development of eight town houses in Blackrock, Co. Dublin. The floor area of No. 4 extends to 1,776 sq ft over three floors and it is priced at €695,000. As an end of terrace unit it has a side entrance to its rear garden. At ground floor level is a kitchen/dining room, separate sitting room and WC. The first-floor accommodates three bedrooms, one of which is en-uite, and the main bathroom. The entire second floor is given over to the master bedroom suite. Built by Degfont, the houses are BER A rated. Melfort is located off Newtownpark Avenue, a road which connects Blackrock Village to the N11 at White's Cross. Knight Frank (01) 6342466 are the sales agents. Dargan's Way, Sutton, Dublin 13 A choice of eight houses ranging from 1,765 sq ft to 2,745 sq ft and at prices starting at €560,000 have gone on sale in the final phase of Dargan's Way, Sutton, Dublin 13. Located off Railway Avenue in the coastal suburb, the houses extend over three stories. They include both detached and semi-detached types. A relatively unusual feature in six houses is that the 17 sq m kitchen/dining rooms are located to the front. To the rear is the 25 sq m livingroom from which double doors open to the back garden. A guest wc is also located at ground level. At first floor level, the master bedroom is located to the rear of the house and it is adjoined by an ensuite and walk-in wardrobe. The second bedroom with a bay window is located to the front at this level. A family bathroom is also located at this level. The houses with 75 sq ft rear gardens have two bedrooms on the second floor. The houses with smaller gardens have one bedroom and the second room on this floor is designated a games room by the planners. As many as five bedrooms are accommodated in each of the two largest houses, both semis which are called Engine House 1 and Engine House 2. These were re-developed from an old period building. The largest of these extends to 2,745 sq ft, and the asking €800,000. New Generation are the developers of this small 21-home estate and this latest phase is expected to be completed in time for Christmas, weather permitting. All the houses have achieved an A3 BER rating, reflecting the installation of eco-friendly technology such as roof mounted solar panels and a heat pump system. All the rear gardens come with stone patio areas and landscaped gardens. Contact Gunne (01) 8335844 for further information. Newtown Manor, Ballindine, Mayo A selection of eight semi-detached four-bedroom and two detached five-bedroom houses have come on the market at Newtown Manor, Ballindine, County Mayo at prices ranging from €99,000 to €185,000. Ballindine is located 6.5 km south of Claremorris. The double-fronted, 2,142 sq. ft. detached houses have a room on each side of the hallway. These could be used as two reception rooms or alternatively one could be used as the fifth bedroom. To the rear of the house is a large kitchen/dining area. A utility room is located off the kitchen along with a WC and door to the rear garden. Upstairs are the bedrooms, including the master with its ensuite. The family bathroom is also located at this level. Floor areas in the semi- detached houses extend to 1,394 sq. ft. The ground level accommodation includes a living room with interconnecting doors to the kitchen/dining area. The kitchen looks out on to the rear garden and its workspace is supplemented with a separate utility room. A WC is positioned off the hall. Outside the semis there is paving to the front and side, a decorative grass strip to the front. In the detached homes the rear garden comes with a play area, garden shed and low maintenance landscaping. Their driveways have been paved and there is parking to the side of the house. Gerard Hanley Auctioneers (094) 9371479 will open a show house in November. Spacious family units close to Newbridge Whitethorn, Athgarvan, Newbridge, Kildare Garyaron Homes, the family firm of motor rally champion Austin MacHale and his two rally driving sons Gareth and Aaron, have a long house building track record in areas close to the M7 in south Dublin and Kildare. Currently they are selling four bedroom semi-detached houses at Whitethorn, Athgarvan, Newbridge, Co Kildare. These extend to 1,624 sq ft over three floors and come with high quality internal and external finishing. At ground floor level is a living room with double doors which open to the kitchen/dining room and a further set of double doors lead from the dining area to the rear garden. A utility room and side entrance to the house is located off the kitchen. At first floor level there are three bedrooms including the master bedroom which is ensuite as well as a family bathroom. A second ensuite bedroom is located on the second floor. With tubular solar roof panels and other energy efficiencies they have attained an A3 energy rating. Joint selling agents Hooke & MacDonald (01) 6318402 and CME (045) 434138 are quoting prices from €299,950. Athgarvan is a picturesque village just 3km from Newbridge, 4km from Kilcullen and 3.5km from the M7 / M9 motorway. Indo Property 
