housing
{  
    February 14 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/bakery-to-make-way-for-mixed-development-26908511.html }
Permission has been granted for the demolition of the former Ardee Bakery, and the construction of a mixed development, including 63 basement car parking spaces. Mark McInerney, 3 Brighton Hall, Foxrock, Dublin 18 has been given planning permission to demolish Ardee Bakery, jewellers and a house, construct three-storey structure over basement and four-storey structure over basement at junction of Castle Street / Tierney Street and two-storey structure over basment on the north-west corner. Also, basement comprised of 63 car parking spaces, ground floor comprising two retail units and restaurant (which extends to first floor), first floor comprised of medical centre, restaurant upper level, four one bedroom apartments and six two bedroom apartments, second/third floors comprised of six one bedroom duplex apartments and one three bedroom apartment, together with ancillary accommodation and site works at Castle Street and Tierney Street, Ardee. This is among the planning decisions made by Louth County Council from 18th to 24th January. Outline permission granted to Brian McKeown, Drumullagh, Omeath for a house and associated site development works at Drumullagh. Permission granted to Oliver Murphy, Ballagan, Greenore for retention of existing extension and alterations of house at Ballagan. Permission granted to P. Brennan and C. Burke, Mullacurry, Dromin for a house, septic tank and sewage treatment at Mullacurry. Permission granted to Michael Murtagh, Annavackey, Hackballscross for a bungalow, garage and waste water treatment system (WWTS) at Annavackey. Permission granted to Dominic Coulter, Cookspark, Dunleer for dormer windows to roof of house at Nuns Walk, Collon. Permission granted to Michael Crilly, 4 Rathbrist Cottages, Tallanstown to demolish extension, construct single storey extension to house and retention of garage and store at same address. Permission granted to Brendan Sheridan, Templetown, Carlingford for house, septic tank and percolation area at Templetown. Permission granted to Philip McGovern and Jane Kelly, Bavan, Omeath for alterations to house, including revised windows at Bavan. Permission granted to Hugh Phiefer, Sandfield, Corcreeghagh for rear extension to house and detached garage at Sandfield. Permission granted to Fionn Crawley, Piedmont, Jenkinstown for house, septic tank and percolation area at Piedmont. Permission granted to Sean Doyle, Salterstown, Annagassan for 1,080m.sq. agricultural store, including reduced roof level, landscaping, revised entrance, boundary treatment and associated site works at Tullydonnell, Togher. Permission granted to Brian McGuinness, Cavananore, Hackballscross to demolish adjoining garage, construct garage with roof to match house roof and front porch at Cavananore. Permission granted to Paul Forrester, 12 Sandfield Gardens, Blackrock to replace flat roof of extension with tiled pitch roof, conservatory to side, porch and bay window to front of house at same address. Permission granted to Patrick J McDonnell, Townley Hall Road, Tullyallen for extension to house, kitchen and livingroom at same address. Permission granted to Orla and Tony McBride, Top of the Hill, Mount Avenue, Dundalk for kitchen extension to rear of house and retention of attic conversion at same address. Permission granted to Ann Brennan and Glynn Schnieder, Stackallen House, Stackallen for a house at Smarmore, Ardee. Permission granted to Boylesport, 31 Shop Street, Drogheda for part subdivision of shop into bookmakers office, shopfront, pained signage, trough lighting to signage and relocate four commercial satellite dishes at T.C. Matthews, Upper Main Street, Dunleer.  Applications Permission sought by John and Lorraine Leech, Beltichburne, Co. Louth for single storey sunroom extension to side of house and associated site works at Beltichburne. Permission sought by Ronan Phillips, Edentubber, Dundalk for a bungalow, WWTS and associated percolation system at Edentubber. Permission sought by B. Moonan, Anaglog, Smarmore for a bungalow at Belpatrick, Collon. Permission sought by H. O’Donoghue, Strinagh, Collon for dormer bungalow, bord na mona effluent treatment system and associated site works at Coolfore, Monasterboice. Permission sought by Jim Hackett, 47 Ard na Mara, Blackrock for two-storey house incorporating garage and associated site works at Southend, Blackrock. Outline permission sought by Sean Conachy, The Avenue, Dawsons Demesne, Ardee for two dormer houses and associated site works at Dawsons Demesne. Permission sought by Paul Lanney, Main Street, Ardee to demolish two-storey house at Ash Walk, Ardee. Permission sought by Kathleen King, Richardstown, Ardee for change of house type to bungalow at Richardstown. Permission sought by Geraldine McCartney and Gerald Kelledy, Annagassan for a house, WWTU, percolation area and domestic garage at Dromin. Permission sought by David McAnulty, 58 Acton Road, Scarva, Craigavon to demolish house and construct replacement house at Ballyoonan, Omeath. Permission sought by Padraig Halpenny, 7 Lisheen Park, Knockbridge for a house, proprietory effluent treatment unit and percolation area at Kilcroney. Permission sought by Rye Valley Foods Ltd., IDA Industrial Estate, Carrickmacross for sludge storage facility 1,200m. cubed, bagtank with earthbank surround at Rossmakey, Knockbridge. Outline permission sought by Caroline Russell, Townley Hall, Tullyallen for dormer house, proprietary WWTS and entrance from public road at Townley Hall. Permission sought by Sean and Martha Kerr, Site 1, Ballybailie, Ardee to convert balcony to living accommodation and retention of velux rooflight at same address. Permission sought by Seamus and Victoria Spaight, Fort House, Doylesfort Road, Dundalk for dormer house, adjoining garage to rear and site entrance at Chapel Pass, Blackrock. Outline permission sought by Conor and Jackie Haughey, Feltrim House, Feltrim Road, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin for three houses at North Commons, Carlingford. Permission sought by Brendan Roche, 3 Rock Court, Blackrock for extension and alteration to front and side of house including porch, car port, utility room, decked area, attic store and site works at same address. Permission sought by Blackwall Construction Ltd., Mountain View, Sandyford Village, Co. Dublin for four four-bedroom semi-detached, 14 three-bedroom detached and 15 five-bedroom terraced houses in five blocks, modify 98/239 including change front elevation to houses 26, 27 and 32-34 at Mountain View, Dunleer. Permission sought by Anthony Fox, Ballinurd, Kilkerley to relocate effluent treatment at Ballinurd. Permission sought by Gareth Byrne and Bernadette O’Hanlon, Castlebellingham for a house, double garage, septic tank, puraflo WWTS and associated works at Channonrock, Louth. Permission sought by David Maginnis, Drumnasilla, Ravensdale for dormer house, WWTS and associated site works at Drumnasilla. Outline permission sought by Martin and Ann Crilly, Broomfield, Collon for dormer house, WWTS and percolation area at Oriel Road, Collon. Permission sought by B. Duffy, Sizzlers Restaurant, Castle Street, Ardee to demolish commercial unit, construct two-storey unit to include two commercial / retail units on ground floor and one apartment on first floor with associated site works at Barrets Lane, Ardee. Outline permission sought by Linda Martin, Mooretown, Dromiskin for a house, septic tank, percolation area and all associated site works at Mooretown.  Refused Permission refused to John Butterly, Newtownstalaban, Drogheda for change of use from agricultural storage and yard to commercial storage from October to June inclusive at shed no. 1, install security cameras and flood lighting at same address. Permission refused to Padraic McParland, Monksland, Carlingford for a house, WWTS and associated site works at same address. Permission refused to Nicholas Winters, Priest Town, Dunleer for single storey house, playschool and creche at Bankerstown, Monasterboice. Permission refused to Catherine and Michael Campbell, 417 Ashbrook, Dundalk for two-storey house, WWTS, percolation area, associated site works, entrance and boundary at Commons, Dromiskin. 
