housing
{  
    May 18 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/greedy-landlords-using-house-crisis-to-exploit-tenants-27122803.html }
GREEDY landlords in Drogheda are using the housing crisis to exploit tenants by keeping them in Dickensian living conditions, it has... GREEDY landlords in Drogheda are using the housing crisis to exploit tenants by keeping them in ‘Dickensian’ living conditions, it has been claimed. A debate on the crisis at the monthly meeting of Drogheda Corporation heard that some people on the housing list in Drogheda - which now stands at 668 - are living in squalid, overcrowded conditions. Cllr. Tommy Byrne called for the suspension of standing orders, saying it would not be appropriate to have the debate of the eve of a Mayoral election. It was time for a reasonable and sensible debate on Drogheda’s housing crisis. Cllr. Byrne said that there were only 22 houses to be given out this year and he had written to the Minister for the Environment and the Taoiseach on the matter. The private sector was slowing down and there were houses around town that could be bought at a reasonable price, and there was land that could be purchased at Greenlanes and Mell. ‘We have to say to the Government, enough is enough. They’re talking about building a national stadium for £200 million and we still haven’t got the slate clean on local authority housing. I would love to see a national stadium, but the first priority here has to be the housing list. I want to send the message out loud and clear that this is unacceptable to us as councillors’. He said the situation had led to overcrowding and people living in poor conditions, saying that in one place in Yellowbatter, people were ‘literally hanging out of the rafters’. ‘In the tenements years ago, at least children could go out and play football, now they’re locked up like prisoners’, he said. Cllr. Byrne complained that the voluntary housing agency Respond was planning to build 150 houses, ‘not a blade of grass’ had been turned on the scheme yet. ‘It’s scandalous to see a lovely development sitting there and no houses being built on it. You would think we were negotiating with President Clinton on a deal’, he said. A cash injection of at least £5 million was needed immediately to address the housing problem. He was not blaming the Corporation officials but the senior politicians in the town. In response to a question from Ald. Jimmy Mulroy on his views of the Government’s Affordable Housing Scheme, Cllr. Moore said he welcomed the bill but believed there would be legal objections to it. Cllr. Tommy Murphy said that young couples were paying massive prices to rent flats and landlords would not even give them a rent book. ‘We can ask the Minister to make a special case for Drogheda, but I’m sure that every town and village around the country would come up with the same cry’, he said, adding that there was enough land in the town to get people off the housing list. ‘I feel sorry for our officials - they can only cut the cake with what they have’. The problem was simply one of resources and the only way to get them was by lobbying the Government, and at the moment, their appeals were falling on deaf ears. As far as the Minister was concerned, Drogheda was just another small town like Ardee. But the town was getting bigger and bigger and 22 houses was not even the tip of the iceberg, he said. Referring to the cramped conditions in someone houses, he said ‘people are living in orange boxes - it’s as simple as that’. Cllr. Frank Godfrey said there was a crying need in Drogheda to build 200 houses a year and the Government had failed miserably to provide the necessary funding. ‘People who need housing are living in overcrowded and damp conditions. It’s an indictment on the Government and they should hang their heads in shame’. ‘The message out there for single mothers is, the more children they have, the better chance they have of getting a house. I think that’s wrong’, he said. ‘I think it’s sad to see young mothers walking the streets of Drogheda with two or three children when the asking price for rents is a sin. £60 to £80 a week is being subsidised by the Government when they should be getting their act together to provide local authority housing’. Cllr. Maria O’Brien Campbell said housing was the single biggest issue facing local authorities and the spiralling cost was making it increasingly difficult for young couples to buy a home even though they are on good incomes. She was dissatisfied that funding was not moving fast enough. More public-private partnership was needed. ‘There are people living in flats that are not fit for human habitation, and some are living in squalor’, she added. Cllr. Malachy Godfrey said he hoped Drogheda could be at the forefront, setting an example for other councils looking for funding. He paid tribute to groups like Respond and said the Government was not doing enough. ‘We are in a crisis situation here in Drogheda. Let us show the Minister that we mean business’. Cllr. Gerald Nash said the 250 houses that would be built in the next five years was not going to make a significant impact given Drogheda’s rapid growth. The housing list would probably double over the next five years, and the Corporation would not be able to provide for the people in the town, let alone those coming to Drogheda. Cllr. Nash pointed out that, according to the latest SIPTU figures, only 10 people owned all the available land in Dublin and in Drogheda, he believed only a handful of people owned all the land. ‘Because of market value, they are holding onto it and not releasing it to the Corporation or developers who want to build houses. It’s getting into a Dutch auction situation’. There are landlords around town abusing the situation and exploiting people they know are in need by taking them into substandard accommodation and not providing rentbooks. I think as a Corporation we should be clamping down on this’. Senator Fergus O’Dowd suggested that a lot of senior citizens were living in houses that were too large and would be willing to ‘downsize’. There should be an initiative to cater for this, he said, and Drogheda Corporation was not providing enough options. Describing substandard flats in Drogheda, he said: ‘Some of these places are utterly Dickensian - it’s impossible to believe that landlords are renting these premises and the Health Board are funding families in them’. Cllr. Frank Maher said allocating housing at the moment was like ‘trying to do the miracle of the loaves and fishes’ and there was no easy solution to the housing problem. Ald. Jimmy Mulroy said there should be 50 year mortgages, as payments would be more affordable, and the Government should set up a scheme with guaranteed fixed interest rates. Cllr. Tommy Moore said that at the current rate, it would take 10 years just to wipe out today’s housing list. He pointed out that the Labour party did its best to provide housing when it was in power. Cllr. Patsy Kirwan said that the money was there to solve the problem, but the Government didn’t seem to have the will. The Mayor of Drogheda, Cllr. Sean Collins agreed with Senator O’Dowd that one of the ways forward was to re-examine the current structures. County Manager John Quinlivan pointed out that Drogheda would benefit from the 150 Respond houses and the town currently had 43 acres of development land. Dundalk UDC had started buying houses in private estates and that would be examined in Drogheda also. He said the difference between an application for housing and an application because someone was in acute need had to be taken into consideration. Mr. Quinlivan accepted that downsizing and upsizing did happen and the Corporation would not be opposed to support to encourage people out of under-utilised housing. Town Clerk Brendan Hoey said the revised housing list figure was 568. Respond expected to get started on their Mell development very quickly. In four years, 240 houses would be allocated, Respond had a further 150, with the possibility of an additional 100 in the four year period. There were 45 houses from the 1999 allocation, so over the four years, the impact on the list would be significant. However, the first sign of additional houses coming on board would be 2001. ‘It’s not going to happen in 2000. People will have to be patient’. 
