housing
{  
    January 21 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/localnotes/ambitious-plan-to-tackle-meaths-acute-housing-shortage-27121062.html }
A TOTAL of 640 new local authority homes are to be built in Meath in the next four years under an ambitious multi-annual housing plan aimed at... A TOTAL of 640 new local authority homes are to be built in Meath in the next four years under an ambitious multi-annual housing plan aimed at tackling the county’s acute housing shortage. The plan includes 106 housing starts in the Slane electoral area before the end of 2004. The far-reaching plan was welcomed by councillors at a meeting of Meath County Council, which heard that there were 215 applicants on the housing lists the county’s local authorities - 59 in the county council area and a further 156 between Navan, Kells and Trim UDCs. Meath County Council is to seek additional lands to fulfil the programme, which will be ‘front loaded’ to provide as many new homes as quickly as possible. The Council will also be dealing with the voluntary housing sector, with 20 homes already being built by North and East Housing at Seaview, Laytown. Work is expected to begin in ‘early to mid-2000’ on another scheme in Donore. Commenting on the four-year programme, Cllr. Tom Kelly (Ind), Laytown, said that in his experience, everyone who came to the council’s housing section was very well received and well looked after. The quality of houses being built at present was excellent, he said, and the standard of work seemed to be ahead of that in the private sector. Standards seemed to be slipping in private houses and it was imperative that some kind of inspections were carried out. ‘Very few would qualify under the ISO standards for quality of building’, he added. ‘It is very important that we as a council would seek to set a very high standard of houses and that people would get very good value for money’. The management of housing estates was one of the major issues facing the council in coming years, and there were many problems associated with this, he told the meeting. ‘Intimidation is going on, people are being forced out of their houses because of intimidation and the council has to buy the houses back. It is regrettable that this is going on in this county, or in any part of Ireland, and it’s terrible to think that decent honest people should be intimidated out of their homes because of circumstances over which they have no control’. He stressed that there should be tenancy agreements setting out the responsibilities of both the tenant and the council, and it was important for estates to include proper play areas and child minding areas. Cllr. Kelly pointed out that there should also be standards required of landlords letting private rented accommodation, with rent subsidies now up to £70 per week. ‘There is a lot of money being put into the rented sector without achieving the end result of providing more housing’, he said. ‘I know people receiving very good rent subsidies from the health board and the conditions they’re living in are appalling’. He said it was regrettable that in the new century, there were still houses in Co. Meath without indoor toilet facilities. he hoped that when the council came back to the issue at the end of the four-year plan that it could be reported that there were no houses without toilets. In relation to essential repair grants, he said he had come across two people with psychiatric problems who did not qualify for essential repair grants because of their age. This was something he wanted addressed in the programme. ‘The conditions are appalling, you wouldn’t put animals into the conditions that these people are living in’, he said. Housing co-ops would be one way of providing affordable housing in private-public partnership, rather than forcing builders to hand over 25% of their land, he continued. Cllr. Shaun Lynch (FG), Duleek, complimented the council staff on the report. ‘It’s great to see a multi-annual report and planning rather than dodging from year to year, hoping we get an allocation’, he said. ‘It’s good to see so many houses being built, but the need is rising faster than the supply’. As recently as 1990, there were only eight housing starts in the space of a year in Co. Meath, Cllr. Lynch pointed out. It took Brendan Howlin to kick-start the housing programme when he was Minister. ‘For young couples trying to get their foot on the ladder, they can’t face into a mortgage of £100,000 plus on small salary scales. That will throw more people onto our housing list’. There was a need, he said, for more parcels of building land to be provided for council houses in rural villages. People would not apply for a house in places like Stamullen because they know that no land is being provided there. In relation to disability grants, he said that Cllr. Anne Dillon-Gallagher’s suggestion for a ‘one stop shop’ was a good idea. In one case, seven different people had called to one particular client from sections of the council and the health board and Cllr. Lynch wondered what this had cost the taxpayer. All houses should be adaptable for disability, he continued, because it cost a lot more to put in a downstairs bedroom or bathroom at a later stage. For homeless people or the elderly living in the country in unsuitable housing, there should be sheltered accommodation in apartment style blocks which would be easy to heat and service. He was not happy that there would be only 106 housing starts in the Slane electoral area in the next four years, but it was at least a step in the right direction. According to Cllr. Jimmy Fegan (FF), there were four types of people on the housing list in Meath - those who had applied but failed to get planning permission and were on the list for ‘tactical purposes’; those who wanted to help themselves buy a house through various schemes; people who tried to purchase in the private sector and couldn’t afford it and people from a socio economic group which determined ‘virtually before their birth that they will end up on the housing list’. Those people above all, he said, needed the council’s help. Cllr. Paddy Fitzsimons (FF) said that what the County needed was a landbank and ‘serious additional funds’ for housing. He pointed out that there were one or two areas where people got together and built estates out of their own funds. Consideration should be given to people who can’t afford to buy houses on the private market, he said. Cllr. Patsy O’Neill (FG) said there were 176 people on the housing list in Co. Meath and not enough houses were being built to keep up with this demand. ‘It’s scandalous in this day and age when there seems to be endless money around’, he added. One man had six in his family, bought out his council house and discovered that he when he needed more space, he could build on, Cllr. Jimmy Weldon (FF) said. He added that he felt sorry for people caught in such awkward positions. ‘A planned approach is before us, but it has its limitations, and the limitation is money, money and more money’, said Cllr. Jim Holloway (FG). He commended that council on the quality of houses being built with the resources available and said that child-minding areas were an essential part of any scheme. In relation to rent subsidies, he said: ‘I think that is a very poor use of state funds, particularly when it gets into the hands of landlords who rent out premises in appalling conditions’. 
