housing
{  
    March 30 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/planning-in-fingal-27783738.html }
PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 16/03/00   PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 16/03/00 Extension Of Duration Of Permission: Frank & Helen Jennings, 1 Seabury Place, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for conversion of garage, over garage extension and detached garage at 1 Seabury Place, Malahide, Co. Dublin. K. Healy, Milverton, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for approval for dwelling and biocycle unit at Milverton, Skerries, Co. Dublin. A. McLoone, Glenties, Tower Street, Rush, Co. Dublin, for approval for dormer bungalow under outline plan ref.F97A/0241 at site to the south of "Glenties", Tower Street, Rush, Co. Dublin. J. Sweetman, Piercetown, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for revised house design for previously approved dwelling plan ref. F98A/0480 at Piercetown, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Mr. P. Curran, 74 Clonkeen, Fairy House Road, Ratoath, Co. Meath, for dormer bungalow and biocycle unit at Luttrells Cross, Ballystrahan, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. Martha Clinton, Barnageera, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to build a montessori facility at Barnageera, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Billy McCartney, 2 Inbhir Ide, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for subdivision of a single 2 storey dwelling house into 2 no. 2 storey dwelling houses and new entrance gates at 2 Inbhir Ide, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Noel Quinn, 72B Lorcan Drive, Santry, Dublin 9, for bungalow and biocycle unit at Race Course Lane, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Mr. John Gill, "Highgrove House", Clonmeton, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for erection of a two storey extension consisting of ground floor, swimming pool, ancillary requirements with 2 bedrooms over the rear at Highgrove House, Clonmeton, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. D. Nolan, 23 Forest Court, River Valley, Swords, Co. Dublin, to alter the house type at site 321, Road 17 of the approved development (under permission F98A/0290) at the housing development at lands accessed from the distibutor road at Glen Ellan, Jugback Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin. G. & J. Dunne, 31 Abbeyvale Court, Swords, Co. Dublin, for extension to side and rear at 31 Abbeyvale Court, Swords, Co. Dublin. G. Price, Seaside, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for existing house, car access and sheds at Seaside, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin. Brd.of Mgt. Pope John Paul II School, Inbhir Ide Drive, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for erection of a single storey extension comprising of six classrooms and ancillary rooms, new link corridors, new site entrance and associated site works at Inbhir Ide Drive, Malahide, Co. Dublin. J. Tobin, Ballagh, Riverstown, Birr, Co. Tipperary, for permission to build two storey house with yard and out building and waste water treatment plant at The Glebe, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. J. Whitney, 101 Grange Road, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin, for granny flat to side, extension to rear and internal alterations at 101 Grange Road, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin. J. O'Reilly, 14A (rear of no. 14 Baldoyle Road), Baldoyle, Co. Dublin, to retain chalet-house at 14a to the rear of no. 14 Baldoyle Road at 14 Baldoyle Road, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. John Rice, 13 Ayrfield Park, Rathvale, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 3 no. sites for dwelling houses, new entrance gates and road and effluent treatment systems at Back Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Dermot Farrell, Lecklinstown, Naul, Co. Dublin, for dormer dwelling, garage and biocycle system at Drishogue, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. P. Monks, 22 Kenure Park, Rush, Co. Dublin, for dormer dwelling at Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. P. Jones, Beauhill, Whitestown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for relocation of approved dormer dwelling and biocycle system at Whitestown, Rush, Co. Dublin. Mr. B. O'Donoghue, 2 Carrickbrack Park, Sutton, Co. Dublin, for extension/minor alterations to rear of existing shop and for first floor offices on site no. 8, and proposed ground floor shops (2) or financial service outlets (2) with offices over first floor level to nos. 9 and 10, in addition to 2nd floor two bedroomed dormer apartments over nos. 8/9/10 Main Street, Howth, Co. Dublin. Terence O'Connor & Sharon Quigley, Blackwood Lane, Malahide, Co. Dublin, to build a dormer bungalow, sunroom, and domestic garage, biocycle treatment system, enlarge existing entrance at Courtlough, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Island Associates Limited, 14 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, for 5 number single MV-LT sub stations and consumer room at Swords Business Campus, Balheary Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. R. and M. Gunning, "Hidden Ridge", Malahide Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey bungalow to rear at rear of "Hidden Ridge" Malahide Road Swords Co. Dublin. Mr. Kenneth Cahill, 23 The Drive, Melrose Park, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin, for removal of single storey side accommodation comprising of office and store and construct a new 4 bedroom detached house on property on the side of 23 The Drive, Melrose Park, Swords. Henry Tolan, North Beach, Rush, Co. Dublin, for retention and completion of bungalow, garage and biocycle system at North Beach, Rush, Co. Dublin. A. Corcoran, The Cottage, Tyrellstown, Lusk, Co.Dublin, to raise roof with dormer roof and extensions. Retention ofseptic tank and percolation area, garage, kitchen and bathroom extension, and vehicular entrance at The Cottage Tyrellstown Lusk Co. Dublin. Ravenshall Development Ltd., 44 St. Stephen's Green, Dublin 2, for residential development with new entrance and access from Estuary Road, consisting of 8 no. three bed 7 no. four bed and 6 no. two bed two storey townhouses in five blocks, with sewage treatment plant at site adjoining "Larchwood" Estuary Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Delia Reilly, Hynestown, Naul, Co. Dublin, for outline permission for dormer bungalow at Naul Village, Co. Dublin. Conor Weldon, Hayestown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for construction of a four bedroomed dormer bungalow at Coast Road, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin. Catriona Farrell, 50 Hayestown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for construction of a a four bedroomed dormer bungalow at Coast Road, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin. Padraig Keane, 27 Woodlands, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for conversion of garage to livingroom, build bedroom and toilet up over garage, extend to front the ground floor of the house at 27 Woodlands, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Irene Tyrrell, The Rise, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for new two storey side extension at ‘Santa Maria", "A" The Hill, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. P. Tyrrell, The Rise, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for two storey side extension at "Santa Maria", "B" Seamount Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. U. Dietrich, 6 Seacliffe Avenue, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, for attic conversion with 2 rear and 1 front velux windows and bathroom at 6 Seacliffe Avenue, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. R. Burke, 160 Carlton Court, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension comprising bedroom, bathroom and study to the side at 60 Carlton Court, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. and Mrs. P.O'Callaghan, 27 Hampton Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey extension to rear of house at 27 Hampton Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Mr. Dennis Joseph Heery, Baldwinstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin, to construct a bay window extension to existing dwelling at Baldwinstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Mr. A. O'Donovan, 5 Carrickbrack Hill, Sutton, Co. Dublin, for replacement of existing flat roof over entrance and part of house, with sloped roof at 5 Carrickbrack Hill, Sutton, Co. Dublin. Aidan and Marie Burke, 84 Admiral Park, Baldoyle, for erection of a first floor extension to the side, conversion of existing garage to family room and a porch to the front at 84 Admiral Park, Baldoyle, Dublin 13. S. Kennedy, 53 Seabury Crescent, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for first floor domestic extension to the side, and ancillary work at 53 Seabury Crescent, Malahide, Co. Dublin. P. Walshe, 2 Melesian Avenue, Swords, Co. Dublin, for two storey domestic extension to the side, alterations to front boundary wall and ancillary work at 2 Melesian Avenue, Swords, Co. Dublin. Michael & Geraldine Horan, 12 Church Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, to build bedroom over existing garage at 12 Church Road, Dublin 13. Leo and Kay Keogh, 16 St. Domhnach's Well, Sutton, Dublin 13, for retention of utility room built to side of existing house at 16 St. Domhnach's Well, Sutton, Dublin 13. D. Gahan & A. Ryan, 19 Railway Avenue, Sutton, Dublin 13, for single storey extension, new pitched roof and general renovations at 19 Railway Avenue, Sutton, Dublin 13. Alison Richardson, 5 Moyne Road, Baldoyle, for cead pleanala iomlan a fhail i gcomhair for theach a dheanamh ar teach ag uimhir a cuig bothar Moyan, Baldoyle, Baile Atha Cliath ag uimhir a cuig bothar Moyne, Baldoyle, Baile Atha Cliath. M. Hand, Ivy House, The Green, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for outline permission for bungalow, septic tank and vehicular entrance at Causestown, Lusk, Co. Dublin. N. Rutledge, The Whitehouse, Newpark, The Ward, Co. Dublin, for dormer extension to approved dormer bungalow and stables at Newpark, The Ward, Co. Dublin. V. Lumley, Kileek, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow and biocycle unit at Killeek, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. Rush Dramatic Society Ltd., Chapel Green, Rush, Co. Dublin, for alterations and extensions to Theatre at Chapel Green, Rush, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. R. Gill, Burrow Lodge, 46B Howth Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, for addition of a detached single storey garage structure to the rear of previously approved dwelling at 18 Thormanby Lodge, Howth, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to GRANT OUTLINE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Ann-Marie Ennis, West Curragh, Naul, Co. Dublin, for two storey dwelling, new entrance, biocycle unit and percolation area and associated site development works at West Curragh, Naul, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to GRANT PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Mr. Freddie Murray, 64 Hampton Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for proposed garage, entrance to road to the rear and alterations to the front elevation at 64 Hampton Street, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Dr. Seamus Greenan, Rath Mhuire, 9 Malahide Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to front of existing surgery at Rath Mhuire, 9 Malahide Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. David Daly, The Gables, Torquey Road, Foxrock, Dublin 18, for temporary information signage board at Airside Business Park, Crowcastle, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. Denis Finn, "Camross", 134 Dublin Road, Sutton, Dublin 13, interior alterations, two storey extensions to rear of house and modifications to front of existing two storey house and the erection of a single storey garage/garden shed to the rear at "Camross", 134 Dublin Road, Sutton, Dublin 13. Catherine Simpson, 37 Fortfield Park, Terenure, Dublin 6W, for demolition of an existing flat roofed single storey extension and construction of a new single storey extension with a pitched roof at rear of no. 19 The Square, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Fiona and Jimmy Swaine, 100 Ard na Mara, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for attic conversion and elevational alterations at 100 Ard na Mara, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mary McGuinness, 169 Broadmeadows, Swords, Co. Dublin, for front extension to carport, rear kitchen extension and under stairs bathroom conversion at 169 Broadmeadows, Swords, Co. Dublin. M. Kelleher, Arus Barra, Forrest Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension at side at Arus Barra, Forrest Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. P. J. O'Driscoll, 123 Stapolin Lawns, Baldoyle, Dublin 13, to convert existing garage into sitting room, along with new bedroom and toilet extension at first floor level to side at 123 Stapolin Lawns, Dublin 13. Mr. David Gleeson, 3 Rathbeale Crescent, Swords, Co. Dublin, for retention of a roof light to the front at 3 Rathbeale Crescent, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. Richard Archer, Sandyhills, Rush, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow and Biocycle waste water treatment system on site at The Brook, Off Park Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Mr. P. Hickey, 39 Wheatfield Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, to erect a two storey dwelling with new vehicular and separate pedestrian entrances at 39 Wheatfield Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. C. and A. Ring, 5 Malahide Marina, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for new house (change of house type) and waste water treatment plant at 2 The Grange, Malahide, Co. Dublin.  Requests for CLARIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications: Derek Plant, Old Coach Road, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing dwelling house and replace with new dwelling house at Old Coach Road, Balrothery, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin.  Requests for ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications: Mr. Joseph Kelly, Burrow Road, Portrane, Co. Dublin, for erection of a dormer dwelling and garage with a waste water treatment system at The Burrow, Portrane, Co. Dublin. Robert & Emer Kelly, 1 Cianlea, Swords, Co. Dublin, for erection of a bungalow and garage with a waste water treatment system at The Burrow, Portrane, Co. Dublin. Dr. & Mrs. M. Cox, 31 Rathbeale Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for new pitched hipped roof incorporating 2 new velux windows over existing surgery at 31 Rathbeale Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. John Harvey, Hayestown, Naul, Co. Dublin, to erect dwelling, garage, septic treatment plant and associated external works at Dermotstown, Naul, Co. Dublin. A. & K. Mahon, Main Street, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for demolition of existing 2 storey retail unit and adjacent2 storey house and construction of new 2 storey building with shops on ground floor, offices on 1st floor and car parking to rear at rear at Main Street, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Dr. Fergus Murray, Kilbush Lane, Rush, Co. Dublin, for conversion of ground floor to 2 number shop units with new shop fronts at 41 Main Street, Rush, Co. Dublin. Tommy O'Neill, Mearlane Lodge, Tobergregan, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for dormer conversion to existing dwelling comprising three bedrooms, one en-suite, bathroom to first floor. New storm porch to ground floor and internal changes at Mearlane Lodge, Tobergregan, Garristown, Co. Dublin. John and Brian Farrelly, Unit 4 Portmarnock Town Centre, Dublin 8, for 8 no. two storey three bedroom semi detached dwelling houses and associated site works at Marian Park (north and north east of the park), Baldoyle, Dublin 13.  Decisions to REFUSE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Peter and Susan Sexton, "Knocknagown", St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow at Knocknagown, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. Ronan Kelly, Ard-Lui, Old Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, to build a dormer bungalow and install a septic tank and other recommended sewage treatment plant with percolation areas and new entrance to dwelling at Balustress, Skerries Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. E. Richardson, Chapel Street, 1 Naul Road, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for demolition of existing single storey fish factory building and construction of new two storey residential development comprising, (a) 6 no. 1 bedroom apartments and 8 no. 2 bedroom apartments (total 14 no.) (b) 10 no. car-parking spaces and associated site works at Chapel Street/Naul Road, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Mr. C. Sheridan, 3 Church Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to dwelling at 19 Bridge Street, Swords, Co. Dublin. Wendy Gregan, 9 Turnapin Green, Dublin 17, for single storey extension (granny flat) at rear at 9 Turnapin Green, Cloghran, Dublin 17. Jim & Joan Morris, 1 Carrickhill Rise, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey self contained extension and a single storey extension to front, as part of existing dwelling. at 1 Carrickhill Rise, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. John Cleary, 49 Binn Eadair View, Sutton, Dublin 13, for erection of a two storey extension to rear of 49 Binn Eadair View at 49 Binn Eadair View, Sutton, Dublin 13.  Requests for Time Extensions: Fingleton White & Company Ltd, Bridge Street Centre, Portlaoise, Co. Laois, for proposed control building and ancillary pipework. This proposal is to be carried out in association with a dedicated aviation fuel pipeline, from Dublin Port to Dublin Airport. The route of the proposed pipeline will be located in the following areas: Branch Road North, Tolka Quay Road, East Wall Road, Alfie Byrne Road, Fairview Park, Fairview, Marino Mart, Marino Park Avenue, Marino Park, Croydon Park Avenue, Croydon Terrace, Giffith Avenue, Swords Road, Airport Service Road at Aviation Fuel Storage Terminal, Dublin Airport, Swords, Co. Dublin. Leo and Noreen Groome, 10 St. Catherines Drive, Rush, Co. Dublin, for single storey dwelling with Biocycle waste water treatment system at Piercetown, Skerries K. Connellan, Claddagh House, Posie Row, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin, for change of use from B&B to Guest House at Claddagh House, Posie Row, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. Gabrielle & Anthony Campbell, 20A Chapel Close, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to erect a two storey dwelling house, septic tank and percolation area, connection to existing mains water supply and entrance onto public roadway at Damastown, The Naul, Co. Dublin. Mrs. Margaret Campbell, Damastown, The Naul, Co. Dublin, to erect a two storey dwelling house, septic tank and percolation area, connection to existing mains water supply and entrance onto public roadway at Damastown, The Naul, Co. Dublin. Turckton Developments Ltd., Earlsfort Centre, Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin 2, for development consisting of 5 no. warehouse units, with a total area of 20,997 square metres, each unit including ancillary two storey office accommodation; entrance roadway off the R108, with main sign and control barrier and kiosk; estate roadway; car and truck parking areas; loading yards and loading docks; water supply; foul sewer/foul pumping station; surface water drainage; site development and landscape works; perimeter fencing and site lighting; central fire-fighting water tanks. All on a site of 9.583 hectares at Harristown. The development includes service wayleave at Harristown and including route through adjacent townlands of Sillogue, Coulty and Collinstown, for site services and connection to existing sewer, and underground water supply route at Harristown and including route through adjacent townland of Shanganhill to public mains at lands at Harristown, Co. Dublin. The development includes a secondary sign facing Ballymun Road in the adjacent townland of Ballymun. All in County Dublin.  The following applications were WITHDRAWN: Rhonda & Colin Brophy, 16 The Old Mill, Ratoath, Co. Meath, for outline permission for proposed dwelling and new entrance for site at Naul Village, Co. Dublin. D. Fogarty, 8 Seabury Vale, Malahide, for ew dormer bungalow at site adjoining Killanure, Strand Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin  APPEALS NOTIFIED BY AN BORD PLEANALA DECISION GRANT PERMISSION: Station Construction, Mooretown, Rathbeale, Swords, Co. Dublin, for 166 two storey dwellings.  DECISION GRANT PERMISSION: S. Smyth, Ballisk, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for dormer dwelling.  DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: D. Mongey, 45 Main Street, Swords, Co. Dublin, for development of 3 storey over basement office and commercial development at rear of 45 Main Street, with further 4 storey block containing 1 retail unit and 9 apartments in 4 storey development to the east of the proposed New Street, together with basement car parking area and ramp to same off proposed New Street. Permission includes demolition of existing garage building on site. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: Swiftcourt Developments Ltd. for for mixed use residential and commercial development to include 115 no. apartments, comprising 1,2,3 bed units and 3 bed duplex units 17 no. 3 and 4 bedroom townhouses, commercial block with retail and office use fronting Portrane Road, ranging in height from 2 storey on the Portrane Road, through 3 storey to 3 1/2 storeys to the rear of the site. Single storey library building, part two storey creche, civic space/sculpture site fronting Portrane Road, surface and underground car parking with associated site development works and proposed vehicular access to Donabate Train Station lands at site at rear of Donabate Neighbourhood Centre and fronting Portrane Road, Ballisk, Donabate, Co., Dublin. DECISION REFUSE PERMISSION: The Rybo Partnership, 1 Castle Terrace, Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for development comprising: the partial demolition of the return of the existing 3 storey house, which is a List 2 structure (Map 7, res. no. 6 - terrace and front railings), and which is presently arranged in 7 flats and 6 bedsit units; the complete refurbishment of the retained 3 storey house, and its conversion to 3 no. 2-bed and 3 1-bed apartments; the construction of a new 2 storey extension to the rear of the house, comprising 2 no. 2 bed apartments, and the erection of a new 3 storey over basement annex in the rear garden of the house, comprising 27 no. 2-bed apartments, with a 32 car residents only basement car park with vehicular access via the private up-graded laneway to the rear of the property accessing onto St. Margarets Road, together with all ancillary associated site development and landscaping works, all on a site of some 2241 sq. m. CONDITIONS GRANT OUTLINE PERMISSION: P. McLoughlin, Lisselan, Barrenhill, Sutton, Dublin 13, for proposed bungalow dwelling. DECISION GRANT PERMISSION: Timmy Fitzgerald, Broghan, The Ward, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and biocycle unit.  DECISIONS OF AN BORD PLEANALA APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission  COUNCILS DECISION: GRANT PERMISSION  LOCATION: 17 The Villa, Melrose Park, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin.  PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: To construct a 4 bedroomed detached house to side of house.  APPLICANT: John Flynn  APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: 12 Balbriggan Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Demolition of existing garage and construction of new house to rear of 12 Balbriggan Road, Skerries with access from Balbriggan Road. APPLICANT: A. Moore APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission  COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: Castleview, Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Change of use of existing coach house and erection of a double garage and installation of a waste water treatment system APPLICANT: Mr. F. Quaill APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission  COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE OUTLINE PERMISSION LOCATION: Lissadel, Corballis, Donabate, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: dwelling with waste water treatment system. APPLICANT: Gillian Maxwell APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission  COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: 18 Balbriggan Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Change porch design (original ref. no. F98B/0151) and make other alterations. APPLICANT: Mary Cassidy 
