housing
{  
    April 18 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/localnotes/planning-applications-received-27765818.html }
P &amp; J Cousins 'Glengarry', 1 Broomfield, Malahide, for construction of a two storey four bed detached house together with connection to public water and sewage and all associated site works to side of existing house and for all new vehicular entrance to existing house at 'Glengarry', 1 Broomfield, Malahide.John Kelly Kellys Garage Limited, Dublin Road, Lusk, for develop P & J Cousins 'Glengarry', 1 Broomfield, Malahide, for construction of a two storey four bed detached house together with connection to public water and sewage and all associated site works to side of existing house and for all new vehicular entrance to existing house at 'Glengarry', 1 Broomfield, Malahide. John Kelly Kellys Garage Limited, Dublin Road, Lusk, for development to consist of new forecourt canopy to replace existing canopy, new facade with signage to existing single storey retail unit and extension to rear (circa 24 sq.m.) new garage office (circa 23 sq.m.), extension of existing paint shop (circa 26 sq.m.), extension of existing forecourt (circa 206 sq.m.), proposed carwash (circa 34 sq.m.), relocation of existing valeting shed (circa 34 sq.m.), relocation of existing services, and services signage, and ancillary site works, all on site (circa 0.364 hectares) at Kellys Garage Limited, Dublin Road, Lusk. Intrust Properties Limited 53 Merrion Square, Dublin 2, to extend the existing car park from six car park levels to eight car park levels, together with alterations to existing ramps, staircores and lift lobbies. The proposed development has a gross floor area of 8,986sq.m. on a site of 1.62 acres and will increase the existing number of spaces by 275 spaces: from 1,038 spaces to 1,313 spaces. The development includes the following: - the construction of a new lift core to serve all new and existing car park levels, together with amendments to existing internal lift lobbies and construction of new lift lobbies at each of the two additional car park levels. This requires the part demolition of the existing curved metal lift lobby roof. - the extension of two existing lifts to serve the proposed two additional car park levels, - a new travelator area at existing car park levels 4 & 5 and at new car park levels 6 & 7 with three new travelators, all the above to be enclosed by a new curved roof over - the construction of three new fire protected stairs between existing car park Level 5 and the proposed two upper levels, adjacent to the existing escape stairs to be only partially enclosed at the top level. - the demolition of the two existing curved metal roofs over the existing escape stairs on the south and west elevations and the construction of new flat roofs over. - the demolition of the existing roofs over the existing car ramps on the south and west elevations to allow for the extension of the ramps by two levels together with the extension of the adjacent terracotta clad wall panel. - elevational changes resulting from the above including a new glazed screen to the existing lift lobbies and new rendered perimeter barrier to the new parking levels. - changes to existing trolley bays and lighting. - All associated site development works at Pavilions Shopping Centre, Malahide Road, Swords. John & Breda Crowe 182 Santry Close, Santry, for new two storey detached 3 bedroom house with habitable attic space, the removal of trees to southern boundary at 182 Santry Close, Santry. Brian McLoughlin 86 St. Donaghs Road, Donaghmede, consequent on the grant of outline planning permission reg. ref. F03A/0583 for a detached two storey dwelling with attached garage and covered swimming pool to rear at 25 Myra Manor, Malahide Road, Kinsealy. Karwyn Holdings Ltd 3 Bushfield Square, Philipsburgh Avenue, Fairview, for 1 no. 4 bedroom, 2 storey dwelling house and one and a half storey garage with ancillary accommodation above plus driveway and associated works on 0.190 Hectares at Plot 45 Abington, Swords Road, Malahide. Colman & Olwyn Hourihan 16 Abington, Swords Road, Malahide, for 1 no. 4 bedroom, 2 storey dwelling house and one and a half storey garage with ancillary accommodation above plus driveway and associated works on 0.184 Hectares at Plot 47 Abington, Swords Road, Malahide. Gary Ryan 3 & 5 Dunemer Rise, Lusk, for retention of use of first floor of premises as a Montessori/creche facility and for retention of alterations to premises including revised emergency escape stairs at 3 & 5 Dunemer Rise, Lusk. Mr. C. Knight 20 Berwick Drive, Swords, for proposed erection and construction of a two bedroom, two storey detached dormer bungalow with realigned vehicular access to No. 24 at Side Of 24 Forest Court, Swords. Mr & Mrs D. Andrews Pluckimin, Garristown, for one and a half storey dormer bungalow consisting of five bedrooms, bathroom and bathroom ensuite and wardrobe units on first floor, for t.v. room, study, lounge, bathroom, kitchen/dining room, utility room, porch on ground floor, for new vehicular entrance, for single storey double garage at side, for four single storey stables and tack room to rear and for Envirocare septic tank unit to site at Commons Upper, Garristown. Joe & Tara Coleman Hackettstown, Skerries, for extension to existing dormer dwelling comprising of a dormer extension to side, and single storey extensions to rear and front of house,proposed shed, revised vehicular entrance and new stone boundary wall to front of site at Hackettstown, Skerries. Dominic & Kathy Lillis Ardbree, Rolestown, for demolition of existing utility area to rear and erection of a kitchen extension, conversion of existing boiler room to sunroom with 3 no. windows to gable wall, new pitched tiled roof over existing flat roof area, new porch area to front, conversion of attic area with 3 no. of dormer windows and 4 velux rooflights to front, 6 velux roof lights to rear roof, new position of vehicular access, new detached domestic garage, new render/dashed finish to dwelling and associated site works, all at existing dwelling at Ardbree, Rolestown. Barry Butterly Windhook, Efflestown, Lusk, for a hard surfaced area (621 sq.m.), 2m high timber panel boundary fencing and use of this area for storage/repair of agricultural vehicles at Windhook, Efflestown, Lusk. Mr & Mrs B McGonagle 21 Church Street, Skerries, to i) Demolish three sheds at rear of the property, ii) construct one new garage/shed to rear of property using existing vehicular access from Chapel Lane, iii) install no. 2 new velux roof lights in rear extension (previously granted Reg. Ref. F05B/0108), iv) install no 4 additional 'skypipes' in the rear roof, v) reduce one upper rear window in size, all at rear of 21 Church Street, which is a protected structure. Whitegables Partnership Whitegables, Swords Road, Malahide, for 1) Demolition of existing 4 bedroom 2 storey detached house and ancillary areas (Whitegables). 2) Extinguishing existing vehicular/pedestrian access and provision of new boundary wall, piers and railings to Swords Road. 3) Provision of new vehicular/pedestrian access via Lissadel Wood. Erection of 17 no. houses, comprising 16 no. semi-detached and 1 no. detached house and all ancillary works and provision of new landscaping scheme all at lands known as 'Whitegables' at Whitegables, Adjacent To Lissadel Wood, Swords Road, Malahide. Kevin McGuinness (Caoimhin Mac Aongusa) Hayestown, Rush, planning permission is being sought for a new dwelling house, with garage and outbuildings behind, as well as a dedicated treatment system for waste water and for the site works including also the relocation of the existing farm entrance to serve the dwelling house and opening and repositioning the farm entrance on the other side at Hayestown, Rush. Liam Corr Haystown, Rush, for retention of glasshouse and horticultural shed, and for additional glass houses at Haystown, Rush. Donna & Sean Kearney 4 Windward Way, Lusk, for construction of new storey and a half dwelling to rear of existing dwelling to include off road parking for 2 No. cars. (Alterations to previously approved scheme Ref. No. F04A/1675) at Chapel Lane, Lusk. E. Mulligan Courtlough, Balbriggan, for alterations and extensions to two storey premises and for change of use of premises from residential apartments to pharmacy at ground floor level, and medical centre at ground floor and first floor level at Bath Road, Balbriggan. Ms. Karina Melvin Dunsoughly, St. Margarets, for the construction of dormer dwelling house, the abandonment of septic tank serving original house, installation of 2 new wastewater treatment units, alterations to existing road entrance and boundaries of original house at Dunsoughly, St. Margarets. The Board of Management St. Mologas National School, Balbriggan, for the erection of 3 no. single storey prefabricated classrooms (Total area 223 sq.m.) to the north-east corner of existing pre-fabricated classrooms at St Mologas National School, Balbriggan. Garry Foran 41 Woodlands, Portmarnock, for proposed extended bathroom to first floor and single storey extension to rear, to provide a porch and extended living room with lean-to roof to the front and side, existing vehicle entrance to be widened at 41 Woodlands, Portmarnock. Henry Lynn 'Casina', Corballis, Donabate, for amendment to previous grant of planning permission (Planning Ref. F03A/1278/2004) for change of house type from one only 3 B/R dormer bungalow (frontage 42' - area 159sq. m.) to one only 4 B/R dormer bungalow frontage 47' area 191.25 sq. m.) at 'Casina', Corballis, Donabate. Catriona Walsh Balcultry, Swords, for a change in house type from a previously approved planning application (Reg. Ref: F04A/0999). The development will consist of a four bedroom dormer style dwelling (area = 424.36m. sq.) with an envirocare waste water system, a two car garage (area = 48.0m. sq.) at Balcultry, Swords. Conor Lawless 4 Dunree Park, Coolock, Dublin 5, for proposed detached dormer bungalow comprising master bedroom, family bathroom, dining room, living room, fitted kitchen and sun room to rear at ground level with 4 no. bedrooms and study at first floor together with ancillary works at Kinsealy Lane, Malahide. Ballycummin Village Services Ltd. Trading As Kinsealy Homes, Kinsealy Hall, Kinsealy, Malahide, for the development will consist of: (a) Demolition of existing ruin, (b) Construction of 1 no. three bedroom first floor apartment above 2 no. two bedroom 'Garden Level' apartments all contained within 1 no. two storey apartment block, (c) 4 no. additional car parking spaces, (d) bin storage, ESB & Gas compound area and associated site works all with access from Road no. 5 (shared surface area) of previously approved planning permission Reg. Ref. F02A/1435 (An Bord Pleanala Reg. Ref. No. PL.06F.205381) currently under construction known as Abby Well at Chapel Road, Kinsealey, Barony Of Coolock. Old Borough Investments, College House, Blackrock, to vary Condition 10 of the Grant of Permission (Reg. Ref. F01A/1285) which permitted the redevelopment of the Old Borough School (Protected Structure) to a public house and licensed restaurant. Condition 10 limited the hours of opening for the development to 1am, Thursday to Saturday inclusive, and otherwise until 12 midnight. Permission is now sought to revise the hours of operation of the public house, located on the ground floor with facilities at basement level, to open until 2.00a.m. Thursday to Saturday nights and otherwise until 12 midnight at Old Borough School, Main Street, Swords. J & N O'Malley 62 Wendell Avenue/Alder Court, Portmarnock, for alterations to already approved planning permission Reg. Ref. F03A/1276. The alterations to comprise (a) demolition of single storey extension to side of house (b) construction of single storey family room to rere (c) alterations to existing gable elevation (d) general revisions to already approved 2 storey detached 4 bedroom house in side garden (e) minor alterations to 2 no. approved vehicular entrances (f) alterations to north boundary wall (g) associated site works at 62 Wendell Avenue/Alder Court, Portmarnock. Bovale Developments Ltd 29 Dublin Road, Swords, for change of use to Retail Unit no. 2 from shop use to restaurant/cafe use to a previously permitted Local Centre (Reg. Ref. F04A/0929. With approved vehicular access to the site from the New Link Road (running from Forest Road to the N1 Dublin Road) via Boroimhe Blackthorn at Fosterstown North, Swords. Bovale Developments Ltd 29 Dublin Road, Swords, for a change of use to retail unit no. 6 from shop use to take-away/fast food outlet use to a previously permitted Local Centre (Reg. Ref. F04A/0929). With approved vehicular access to the site from the New Link Road (running from Forest Road to the N1 Dublin Road) via Boroimhe Blackthorn at Fosterstown North, Swords. Dr. Carol Mooney 7 Mr. Paul O'Dwyer 1 Railway Avenue, Malahide, for change of use from a dwelling to a general practice surgery at 1 Railway Avenue, Malahide. Mr & Mrs B. Howard Lis Na Mallard, Swords Road, Malahide, to (i) Construct three x two storey with attic, including balconies at roof level, detached dwellings; (ii) construct one two storey dwelling with balcony at first floor; (iii) partial demolition of, and dormer extension to, existing cottage; (iv) close up existing access and create new access from the Swords Road. All dwellings to have area of private open space in the form of front and rear gardens and patio area. The application includes new access road, footpaths, walls, all site development works; fencing and landscaping; and car parking areas at Lis Na Mallard, Swords Road, Malahide. Phylis Kettle Woodland Corner, Lispopple, Swords, for changes to design of previously permitted dormer bungalow and entrance gate, F03A/0519, plus additional garage at Drishogue, Ballyboughal, Fingal. Knightstone Construction Ltd. Riverdale House, Main Street, Clonee, Co. Meath, for revisions to previously granted planning permission Reg. Ref: F04A/1296 for 110 no. 2 storey houses and associated works. Revisions to include the omission of 22 no. 2, 3 and 4 bedroom 1 1/2 and 2 storey houses, house nos. 49 to 70 inclusive and the replacement with 3 no. 2 storey blocks of apartments consisting of: 1. Block 1 consists of 8 no. 2 bedroom and 4 no. 3 bedroom apartments. 2. Block 2 consists of 8 no. 2 bedroom and 4 no. 3 bedroom apartments. 3. Block 3 consists of 6 no. 2 bedroom and 2 no. bedroom apartments. Revisions also include 15 no. additional car parking spaces, bin storage for apartments and all associated site development works at Site Fronting Skerries Road, South And West Of Kenure Parsonage, Skerries Road, Rush. Mr & Mrs J. Quigley 2 Wendell Avenue, Portmarnock, to demolish part of single storey extension attached to side of house and replace flat roof of extension with pitched and hipped roof and new vehicular entrance to front of existing house and construct new detached two storey house to side of existing with pitched and hipped roof and associated site works at 2 Wendell Avenue, Portmarnock. Rory and Catherine Dwyer Little Mo Mo's Playschool, Skephubble Farm, St. Margaret's, for construction of a single storey ground floor toilet extension to side of previously approved extension under Planning Reg. Ref. No. F05A/1109 (Grant order number P/3699/05) at Little Mo Mo's Playschool, Skephubble Farm, St. Margaret's. Mr. Tomas Murphy 16 Talbot Park, Malahide, for a dormer bungalow with biocycle waste water treatment unit at Brownscross, Wynestown, Oldtown. Mr. Terry Moore Newhaggard, Lusk, for the development consists of: proposed extension of 245sq.m. to existing agricultural shed and associated site works at Newhaggard, Lusk. O2 Communications (Ireland) Ltd. 28/29 Sir John Rogerson Quay, Dublin 2, to retain the existing 23.3 metre monopole carrying antennae, link dish, plus associated equipment container, security fencing and access track. Permission previously granted under (F99A/1317 & PL 06F117780) at Hayestown, Rush. O2 Communications (Ireland) Ltd. 28/29 Sir John Rogerson Quay, Dublin 2, to retain the existing 24 metre telecommunications structure carrying antennae and link dishes plus associated equipment container, security fencing and access track. Permission previously granted under (Planning Ref: F01A/0148& PL 06F124761) at The Clonsword Farm, Gerrardstown TD, Ballyboughal. Mr & Mrs Phil Sheridan 6 Convent Lane, Portmarnock, for alterations to a two storey dwellinghouse, previously approved under planning permission ref. no. F05A/1426, which, consists of the following: Excavation works to incorporate a basement area under previously approved two storey dwelling house, creating an overall two storey dwelling house over basement. Incorporating glazed window opes to the stair well. Modifications to the pitch roof and rear elevation. Atrium over the kitchen area. Revised window opes in plan to the site at the rear at Hill View, Convent Lane, Portmarnock. O2 Communications (Ireland) Ltd 28/29 Sir John Rogerson Quay, Dublin 2, to retain the existing 30 metre monopole carrying antennae and link dishes plus associated equipment container, security fencing and access track. Permission previously granted under (Planning Ref: F01A/1256) at Richardstown, Lusk. P. Thomas 2 Castle Park, Swords, for a two storey extension with pitched roof to the front, side and a single storey extension with mono pitched roof to the rear at 2 Castle Park, Swords. Martin Hoare The Banks, Old Road, Rush, to retain single storey extension to rear and garage in rear garden at The Banks, Old Road, Rush. Sean O'Dwyer 10 Rush Road, Skerries, for (i) single storey extension to rear of existing dwelling (ii) minor internal alterations (iii) single storey detached games room in rear garden & (iv) single storey detached pre-manufactured 'home office' in rear garden at10 Rush Road, Skerries. Michael Chatham Deanstown, Balheary, Swords, for demolition of a single storey extension to a domestic dwelling and replacing with a single storey rear and side extension with pitched roof, and demolition of a single storey cow shed and replacing with a two storey motor bike garage at Deanstown, Balheary, Swords. Tony and Cathy Nugent 9 Seabury Court, Seabury, Malahide, to construct a new second storey extension over the existing side extension and new conservatory to the rear at 9 Seabury Court, Seabury, Malahide. Mr. P. O'Mahony Sand Piper House, The Burrow, Portrane, to replace existing flat roof of house with pitched and hipped roof at Sand Piper House, The Burrow, Portrane. David Gargan 28 Seatown Villas, Swords, for etention permission sought for front porch, window to front elevation, rear extension at 28 Seatown Villas, Swords. Graham Daniels 10 Forrest Court, Rivervalley, Swords, for extension to first floor at rear and garage in rear garden at 10 Forrest Court, Rivervalley, Swords. Pat Mongey 2 Seatown Villas, Swords, for retention for increased floor area (area 11m sq on ground floor & 1st floor), as constructed to rear extension, as compared with that granted under F03B/0106 at 2 Seatown Villas, Swords. Appeals Refuse Permission: S. Cassin & R. Kelly for attic conversion and extension of roof type to gable end with 1 no. window in gable and 2 no. velux windows in rear and associated works at 18 Lanesborough Grove, St. Margarets. Decisions Appeal Decision: Refuse Permission Council Decision: Grant Permission Proposed Development: Two storey dwelling, garage, waste water treatment system and entrance. Location: Newbarn, Kilsallaghan. Applicant: Tom Kelleher 
