housing
{  
    November 19 2016 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/when-hollywood-came-calling-to-newbridge-house-35214464.html }
Last year, Newbridge House became the focus of a lot of attention as it provided the backdrop to a film starring the likes of Kate Beckinsale and Stephen Fry in an adaptation of an unfinished novel by Jane Austen. Newbridge House manager, Daniel Butterly has fond memories of those three weeks of film and explained that filming at the house has a long history. Daniel said: 'It was the first time we had paparazzi around here and it wasn't pictures of us, they were looking for. Because of the site itself and the diversity of backdrops we have here from the parkland to forestry, to the farm and the house, people have wanted to film here for years.  'Actually, the way electricity came to the house in 1965 was through 'The Spy that Came in from the Cold'. That film was partly filmed here and if you are watching it, one of the cells he is in was in the basement of the house and the wall he climbs over to escape is the wall of the courtyards - that's how electricity first came here.' A few years ago scenes from the television drama, 'Ripper Street' were filmed at the house and that is how the producers of Love and Friendship came to knock on the door of the great house. Daniel explained: 'We went through everything and signed the contracts and they were here for three weeks shooting. We moved everything out of the house and they brought in their own furniture. The dining room is actually a sitting room in the film. Most of the time they shot inside the house except for one day when they shot out in the courtyard which was made up to look like a London street and they filmed out in front of the house as well.' He said the makers of the film preferred to shoot in a real heritage property rather than building fresh sets because the atmosphere helped the actors' performances. On those famous actors, Daniel said: 'It was only just before they came to film we found out the leads were Kate Beckinsale, Chloe Sevigny and Stephen Fry. Chloe and Kate were here for the entire duration of the filming and Stephen was only here for one day because he had a cameo role.  'We got to hang out with them all and they were very nice, very down to earth people. Stephen is a big hero of mine for his knowledge and his wit and how he stands up for what he believes and is not afraid to say it.  'I was delighted to get to hang out with him for a day and we traded stories and he was just a very nice and down to earth chap. I asked for a photograph with the staff if he didn't mind and he was quite happy to take a picture with us all individually.'  IN 280 years, not much has changed at the Cobbe household at Newbridge House and the house looks very much like it did on the day the Anglo-Irish family turned the property over to Fingal County Council but change is in the air at the moment with a multi-million euro development to preserve and upgrade the beautiful heritage property and increase visitor numbers by up to 50%. Overseeing all of these changes is a local man who grew up on nearby Cobbe's Lane, in the shadow of the great house where now holds the reigns at just 27-years-old. Manager of Newbridge House is Daniel Butterly and recently, he invited the Fingal Independent to the house to chat about the hugely exciting developments that are now well underway there. Talking about the work, Daniel told the Fingal Independent: 'The South Range which was the coach house and stables has all been completely gutted and is going to be a 100-seat cafe and restaurant with more seating outside in a large patio area, a new house and farm reception and a new farm shop as well. We are talking with one quite large local producer for them to put their farm shop in there so hopefully that will work out. 'This has been in the pipeline for six years. It was due to be finished and open in June of this year. We didn't actually break ground until July. But the builders out there now, Francis Haughey Construction, they specialise in old buildings so they are very good and the work quite quickly too. They have been here for three months and they have got about nine months work done. They are flying along with it. 'We would hope to have the majority of the works done by Christmas and then the finishing works to hopefully have us open somewhere between the end of February and April. As you can imagine, the amount of work going on out there is immense. The courtyard that is being resurfaced is an acre in size and each cobble is being put down one at a time - I certainly don't envy the people that are doing it.' There is also some vital conservation work being done on the great house, as Daniel described: 'On the house itself, there are some conservation works going on like the re-plastering of the library that was quite badly water-damaged. The wallpaper in the red drawing room is being touched up because parts of that were coming away from the wall.  'The curtains in the red drawing room are also being refurbished. For each set of curtains, and there are six sets, each set takes 400 man hours just to preserve them in the state they are in, without carrying out repair work on them. They are not being completely repaired because that actually takes away from the value of them - you want to keep them as original as possible but put in place some things that stop them from deteriorating any further. 'Alec Cobbe is still heavily involved in the house now. Alec, Hugh and Mary inherited the house in 1985 from Tommy, their uncle who was the last person to live here. They put it up for sale and the place was in fairly bad shape at that stage.  'They still have permission to use the very top floor as a holiday apartment. They live in England but they do come over and stay regularly and Alec is actually due today to stay for a week. A lot of the artwork and furniture in the house still belongs the Cobbes and they have left them here on permanent loan. Alec actually secured the funding for the refurbishment of the curtains which was quite a substantial amount of money.' On the works taking place outside the house, Daniel said: 'There is quite a large price tag attached to the works - we are nearly in seven figures and that's just the baseline. By the time everything is actually finished over the next year or so, we are talking multiples of that. You have to add all the fitting-out and the finishing works and the works on the restoration of the house as well.' Fingal County Council has committed about €2 million to the task and once these works are complete, there are longer-term plans to develop conference facilities and a performance venue at Newbridge. So how does a 27-year-old former joiner and carpenter end up running one of Fingal's finest heritage properties? Daniel explained: 'I'm just into my seventh year here now. I'm a joiner and carpenter by trade and my family home address is Cobbe's Lane so I actually grew up in this place. Some of the pathways, one in particular at the back of the house, I actually wore through the woodland, as a child.  'When the downturn came in the economy, I actually lost my job in the joinery and I was starting to build up my own business doing joinery and carpentry works and one of the first jobs I had, was to come here and do the cafe and the office where I now spend all my days.  'I did that and it led on to another job here where they needed all the computers and equipment set up in the offices and I was asked if I knew anyone who could do it and I said I could do it. When I was doing that, Brenda, who was the manager here at the time, needed a hand with something and I helped out and she saw my capabilities and the assistant manager's job came up - I applied for that and got it. That was about six years ago. Brenda then left almost two years ago and her position came up and I applied for that and got it.' Asked if he felt that the job was his destiny, growing up in the shadow of the great house, Daniel said: 'As a child, I always thought I would love to get a job in the house. Then I moved away from that thinking and set more realistic targets and got a trade but when the opportunity came up, I grabbed it with both hands. 'It's been crazy but fulfilling. I have to say that I love it here. It's not the wages that keeps me here, it's the love of the place.' He added: 'The best thing about the job is seeing happy kids. I don't have any kids myself and I'm not in any rush to have them but to see happy kids around is great and it's very fulfilling. It's a job and you are paid to do it but that's a little bit of extra reward to see people enjoying what you're working to provide. The staff I work with too, are great. They have an immense amount of passion for the place and it's great to be able to give someone a job they do have a passion for and see the fulfilment they get out of their job as well.  'The biggest challenge would be funding. The only money I have to work with is the money I take in and at the start of each year, I have to try to judge how much money we are going to bring in and how much we are going to spend. It costs about half a million to run the place each year. 'The place has to be self-sustaining and it washed its face up until last year and last year, when I took over, it was the first year we went into profit.'  Newbridge House is making its first tentative steps towards hosting private functions too and has already hosted a wedding and corporate event. Daniel explained: 'We are planning to host weddings and corporate events and we have had two trial runs already. We had a local lady from Loughshinny who got married here in September in the walled garden and two weeks later Dropbox had a corporate event here. 'We are planning to have smaller weddings in the house itself. People can get married in the house and then have the reception in the lumber room for up to about 50 people. It would be a fantastic place to get married.' Asked how he would encourage someone who had never been to Newbridge House, to go along and visit this wonderful parkland, house and traditional farm, Daniel said: 'It's a magnificent house and you get a lot of history of the area here. Come up and spend a day on the farm and teach your kids about the animals and you can go to the cafe and have something to eat and just have a nice day out - there's enough to do so you can spend the whole day here.' Fingal Independent 
