housing
{  
    April 20 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/localnotes/planning-in-fingal-27783964.html }
FINGAL COUNTY COUNCILPLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 07/04/00Mr. &amp; Mrs. D. Richardson, 32 Flemington Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin,...  FINGAL COUNTY COUNCIL PLANNING APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WEEK ENDING 07/04/00 Mr. & Mrs. D. Richardson, 32 Flemington Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for dwelling, storage shed and biocycle unit at Tubbertown, The Naul, Co. Dublin. Fran and Barbara McGuinness, 7 The Green, Seatown Park, Swords, Co. Dublin, for construction of a dwelling house with septic tank and associated site works at Tyrrelstown Little, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Elaine Walsh, Tobergregan, Garristown, Co. Dublin, for dwelling house, septic tank and associated site works at Borranstown, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Paul Walshe, 187 Tonlegee Road, Dublin 5, to erect a house at the side at 36 Grange Road, Baldoyle, Co. Dublin. Gerard Moore, Balgaddy Lane, Naul, Co. Dublin, for bungalow and biocycle waste water treatment system at Tobeen, Garristown, Co. Dublin. Mr. Dan Sugrue, 84 Martello Court, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for proposed new two storey house to side of house to incorporate single storey conservatory to rear and proposed new conservatory to rear of existing house at 116 Huntstown Wood, Mulhuddart, Dublin 15. Mr. M. McNally, Loughmore, Hoar Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for modifications to site layout and new access gateway to previously approved two storey house at Loughmore, Hoar Rock, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Mr. P. Power, 48 Hillside Gardens, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for two storey house to side at 48 Hillside Gardens, Skerries, Co. Dublin. L. Kirby, 40 Carrickhill Walk, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for outline permission for two bedroom two storey house on site at side at 40 Carrickhill Walk, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Kevin Graham, 15 Seapark Hill, Seapark, Malahide, for two storey dwelling with dormer attic at the site adjacent to no. 2 Grove Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. The works include a new stone faced wall adjacent to no. 2 Grove Road and new access/entrance gates in existing front wall of the site at 2 Grove Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. D. Smith, Delmaine, Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for front boundary wall, railings and gates to dwelling house at "Delmaine", Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. D. Smith, Delmaine, Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for conversion of existing garage and store room to one bedroom granny flat at side of dwelling house at "Delmaine", Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Keelings Limited, Roslin, Kileek Lane, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, to construct an extension to the existing vegetable packhouse and a new security hut to the entrance of the existing facility at Roslin, Kileek Lane, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. Mr. David May, 21 Harbour Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for alteration to existing facade to provide wider entrance to lounge bar, demolition of existing ground and first floor structures to the rear and the construction of two storey extension to the rear with new access stairs to first floor at Joe Mays Public House, Harbour Road, Skerries, Co.Dublin. MCK Enterprise, The Orchid Chinese Restaurant, 51B Church Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin for retention of sign on North eastern elevation and the proposed sign lighting of same, retention of ventilation/ cooling fans at ground level at The Orchid Chinese Restaurant, 51B Church Street, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Joan Crowley, 28 Seaview Park, Portrane, Co.Dublin, for new dwelling and biocycle treatment system at The Lawn, The Burrow, Portrane, Co. Dublin. K. Coleman, 69 Downside, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for for dormer bungalow, sewage treatment plant and associated site works at Lusk Road, Milverton, Skerries, Co. Dublin. J. & G. Aherne, Leas Cross Residential Nursing Home, Leas Cross, Swords, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension to the existing retirement complex providing for an additional forty four beds and ancillary accommodation at Leas Cross Residential Nursing Home, Leas Cross, Swords, Co. Dublin. J. & A. Hartford, Ballough, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for agricultural store at existing farm at Ballough, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Mary Archer, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for 9 townhouses in two blocks at Oldtown, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. J. Kirwan, 1 The Mall, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for semi detached two storey three bedroom dwelling to side.of 1 The Hill, Malahide, Co. Dublin. M. O'Gorman, 8 Broadmeadows Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for outline planning permission for new single storey dwelling and biocycle waste water treatment plant at Thornton, Kilsallaghan, Co. Dublin. Francis Kearney, 23 Oak Crescent, Royal Oak, Santry, Dublin 9, to erect a single storey dwelling, biocycle waste water treatment system and ancillary site works at 5 The Grange, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Ken Kinsella, Lispopple, Swords, Co.Dublin, for bungalow with biocycle waste water treatment unit at Lispopple, Swords, Co. Dublin. Derek Clinton, Darcystown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for revised house type to that previously approved (Reg. Ref. F94A/0835) at Darcystown, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. J. Stafford, Killeen, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for revised house type on previously approved site reg. ref. no. F98A/1027 at Killeen, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. J. P. O'Connor, 3 Golf Links Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for detached house at side of no. 3 Golf Links Road at 3 Golf Links Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Swords Laboratories Ltd., Watery Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin for extension of the P3 production building, together with the fit-out of existing store/vacant shell space to that of a production area within the said structure. The extension includes 632.70 sq. m. of pharmaceutical production area/associated space on ground, first and mezzanine floors together with the construction of a new escape stairwell (fully clad), external drum store and external bunds. The application/development requires an IPC Licence at Swords Laboratories Ltd., Watery Lane, Swords, Co. Dublin. The Board of Management, Base Building, site beside St. Cronan's Church, Brackenstown Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for first floor extension at rear of the BASE building at St. Cronan's Church, Brackenstown Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Bill and Maud Keogh, 127 Kelvin Close, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for retention for porch extension at 127 Kelvin Close, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Alison Richardson, 5 Moyne Road, Baldoyle, for cead pleanala iomlan a fhail i gcomhair for theach a dheanamh ar teach ag uimhir a cuig bothar Moyan, Baldoyle, Baile Atha Cliath uimhir a cuig bothar Moyne, Baldoyle, Baile Atha Cliath. Frank & Caroline Brennan, 14 Forest Crescent, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin, for bathroom extension and second-storey bedroom extension to rear at 14 Forest Crescent, Rivervalley, Swords, Co. Dublin. Brian & Grainne O'Shea, 160 Sutton Park, Dublin 13. for widening of existing vehicular entrance, garage conversion and porch to front with new kitchen extension to rear at 160 Sutton Park, Dublin 13. J. Gilmour, 11 Beechpark, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for single storey garage extension to side at 11 Beechpark, Portmarnock, Co.Dublin. Denis Fisher, Old Schoolhouse, Domastown, Naul, Co. Dublin, for retention of bedroom and bathroom at first floor level, retention of change of use of kitchen to bedroom with ensuite toilet and permission for new lounge and entrance hall to house at Old Schoolhouse, Domastown, Naul, Co. Dublin. Mr. Donald Kennedy, 202 Briar Walk, Martello, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension at side at 202 Briar Walk, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. S. Lunney, 32 Oaklands Park, Swords, Co. Dublin, for retention of conservatory at rear at 32 Oaklands Park, Swords, Co. Dublin. T. Duffy, 37 Castle Cove, Yellow Walls Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for first floor domestic extension to the side, a sunroom to the rear, alterations to porch at front and ancillary work at 37 Castle Cove, Yellow Walls Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Seamus Welsh, 20 The Cedars, Boroimhe, Fosterstown, Swords, Co. Dublin, for conversion of garage to habitable area with upper storey extension to existing dwelling at 20 The Cedars, Boroimhe, Fosterstown, Swords, Co. Dublin. James Richardson, 60 Chraoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for extension to rear at 60 Craoibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. C. O'Connor, Balheary, Swords, Co. Dublin, for domestic garage to rear of house at Balheary, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mary Murphy, 60 Tara Cove, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, to erect 1.7 metric screen wall at side at 60 Tara Cove, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin. Eileen Staunton, 20 Offington Drive, Sutton, Dublin 13, for extension at rear first floor roof of existing dormer bungalow to provide additional bedroom and 2 ensuite bathrooms at 20 Offington Drive, Sutton, Dublin 13. Mr. & Mrs. S. Flanagan, Treborth East, Claremont Road, Howth, Dublin 13, for domestic extension and alterations including a two storey garage and bathroom extension to the side, a conservatory and utility area to the rear at Treborth East, Claremont Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. Andrew Tallon, 8 Valley View, Brackenstown Road, Swords. for moving garden gate and drive-in from the front of house to the left hand side of front where pathway is already sloped and paved at 8 Valley View, Swords, Co. Dublin D. Langan, Laguna, Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for detached house and biocycle waste water treatment unit at Palmer Road, Rush, Co. Dublin.  LIST OF DECISIONS MADE FROM 03/04/2000 TO 07/04/2000: Decisions to Grant Permission: Dunnes Stores Ltd., 67 Stephen's Street Upper, Dublin 8, for provision of a new covered enclosure to replace existing trolley bay at the front entrance at Carrighill Shopping Centre, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. J. Dennis, Post Office Road, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for dwelling with biocycle at Post Office Road, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Emmanuel and Lily Moore, Graniteville House, Ballisk, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for retention of existing house including outhouses and an increase in site area at "Graniteville House", Ballisk, Donabate, Co. Dublin. Karen Guildea, 68 Croaibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin, for driveway and double gates to front at 68 Croaibhin Park, Balbriggan, Co. Dublin Overstone Ltd., 59 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, for retention of 2 no. advertising sign boards situated on the eastern side of the development at site adjacent the Swords Road, lands at Fosterstown North, Swords, Co. Dublin. Kevin & Patricia Grogan, 35 Glencarraig, Sutton, Dublin 13, for new bay window, porch, front extension to garage with pitched tiled roof to front and side at 35 Glencarraigh, Sutton, Dublin 13. W. P. Robinson, Blackhills, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for new garage/stores and front porch, also retention of attic conversion of existing house at Blackhills, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Mr. David O'Sullivan, Tamlet, Old Coach Road, Courtlough, Balrothery, Balbriggan, for garage to rear of existing house at Tamlet, Old Coach Road, Courtlough, Balrothery, Balbriggan. Derek Neylon, Tobergregan, Garristown, Co. Dublin, to convert and extend existing garage to a "granny flat" and to provide a front porch at Tobergregan, Garristown, Co. Dublin. B. Duffy & J. Rowley, Sandy Ridge, Crescent Road, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for new breakfast room and alterations to livingroom at rere with new two bedroom dormer extension over existing bungalow at rere and porch to front at "Sandy Ridge", Crescent Road, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin. B. & A. Croghan, Old Monterey, Shielmartin Road, Howth, Co. Dublin, for enlarged dormer window and new balcony to side at "Old Monterey", Shielmartin Road, Howth, Co. Dublin. M. & S. Elliott, 34B Ardcian Park, Rathbeale Road, Swords, Co. Dublin, for proposed retention of existing extension to rear at 34B Ardcian park, Rathbeale Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. Gerard Ryan, Linn Beag, Rush, Co. Dublin, for porch to front of residence at Linnbeag, Rush, Co. Dublin. Brendan Farrell, 43 Balkill Park, Howth, Co. Dublin, to install two roof lights in front roof, raise existing garage roof, and erect single storey extension at rear at 43 Balkill Park, Howth, Co. Dublin. A. J. Murray, Santa Ynez, Old Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for new windows and internal refurbishment of existing detached garage building at Murray Residence, Santa Ynez, Old Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. D. O'Reilly, An Tobhar, Greenwood, Cloghran, Co. Dublin, to convert existing bungalow to dormer bungalow at An Tobhar, Greenwood, Cloghran, Co. Dublin. Mr. and Mrs. Brian Price, 129 Strand Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing buildings rear garden, build single garage extension with boiler house, utility room, toilet and tool store at 129 Strand Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Richard and Kate Fleming,20 Burrow Court, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for works comprising of new first floor bedroom extension to side, extension to rear kitchen with new ulility room, new hipped roof and new roof canopy with columns to front of dwelling at 20 Burrow Court, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin. Mr. and Mrs. O'Reilly, 4 St. Columbas Rise, Swords, Co. Dublin, for front porch and garage extension plus second storey extension over existing garage to side of existing house at 4 St. Columbas Rise, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. David Steele, 21 Cherry Avenue, Swords, Co. Dublin, for 1st. floor extension at side at 21 Cherry Avenue, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. George Salmon, 'La Boro', Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for demolition of existing extension, new dormer windows to front and rere, and new velux windows to side of existing dwelling at 'La Boro', Channel Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Mr. Michael Scanlon, 143 Sutton Park, Sutton [off Howth Rd.] Co. Dublin, for Garage conversion to study/utility room, first floor bedroom extension over garage and minor alterations at 143 Sutton Park, Sutton [off Howth Road], Co. Dublin. Mr. Michael Tracey, 9 Oakley Court, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for garage conversion to family room, new entrance porch canopy, new extension to rear at ground level to include new utility, new first floor extension to include new bathroom to front and new bedroom with ensuite to rear, incorporating 6 no. velux roof lights at 9 Oakley Court, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. Tom Mythen, 54 The Moorings, Malahide, Co. Dublin, for single storey extension forming a sun room at rear of house at 54 The Moorings, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Ms. Carmel O'Donnell, Palmerstown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin, for two storey extension to side of existing dwelling at Palmerstown, Oldtown, Co. Dublin. D. Fitzgerald, Sandyhill, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin, for conservatory extension to existing house at Sandyhill, St. Margarets, Co. Dublin. Mr. & Mrs. Stapleton, 12 Churchfield Close, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for conversion of part of existing garage to a special needs bathroom at 12 Churchfield Close, Skerries, Co. Dublin. K. Russell, Baltrasna, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for new bungalow together with all associated site works at Baltrasna, Skerries, Co. Dublin. Mr. Joseph Murray, 13 Main Street, Rush, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey dwelling at Convent Lane, Rush, Co. Dublin. Rush Credit Union Ltd., Sandy Road, Rush, Co. Dublin, for demolition of existing Credit Union premises and construction of new 2-storey over part basement Credit Union Building including automatic teller machine (ATM facilities, car parking and flag poles at Ivy House, Sandy Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Seamus Farrelly, Meath Hill, Drumconrath, Navan, Co. Meath, for erection of 2 no. two storey detached dwellings at Palmer Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Mr. Gerry Murphy, Balscadden, Co. Dublin, for proposed dwelling and off-street parking for 2 no cars at site to rear of 2 and 4 Market Green at site to rear of 2 and 4 Market Green, with access from Pump Lane. V. Melinn, 57 Offington Avenue, Sutton, Dublin 13, for single storey extensions to side and rear new front porch, conversion of attic with dormer windows to front and rear and alterations to front elevation at 57 Offington Avenue, Sutton, Dublin 13. Requests for ADDITIONAL INFORMATION were made in respect of the following applications:- Ann-Marie Ennis, West Curragh, Naul, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow, septic tank and new entrance at West Curragh, Naul, Co. Dublin. Mr. J. Marren, Brackenstown Equestrian Centre, Swords, Co. Dublin, to construct a 450 mm diameter foul sewer outfall pipe from Brackenstown Equestrian Centre to Forest Road, Swords at Brackenstown Equestrian Centre, to Forest Road, Swords, Co. Dublin. Sarah Jones, Melbourne House, Lower Main Street, Rush, Co. Dublin, for one dormer bungalow at Bawn Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. Ms. Mary Shiels, Leas Cross, Swords, Co. Dublin, for new granny flat attached to side of existing dwelling at Leas Cross, Swords, Co. Dublin. Mr. Mark Byrne, 18 Beaverbrook, Donabate, Co. Dublin, for construction of two storey extension at the side at Beaverbrook, Donabate, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to REFUSE OUTLINE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Mr. G. Davey, 284 Limetree Avenue, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for outline permission sought for 4 bedroom, 2 storey house with built in garage on site at rear at 284A Limetree Avenue, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin.  Decisions to REFUSE PERMISSION were made in respect of the following applications: Very Rev.James Randles P.P., 2 Castle Terrace. Malahide, Co. Dublin, for 2 storey parochial house in the grounds of St. Sylvesters Church at St. Sylvesters Church, Dublin Road, Malahide, Co. Dublin. Mr. Vincent Kiernan, 14 The Crescent, Skerries Road, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for 2 bed townhouse adjacent to 14 The Crescent, The Crescent, Skerries Rock, Skerries, Co. Dublin. N. Biddulph, "Sexton Cottage", Dublin Road, Lusk, Co. Dublin, to renovate and change the use of existing cottage into creche, realign existing vehicular entrance, build a 3 bedroom, bathroom, living room extension to side at "Sexton" Cottages, Dublin Road, Lusk, Co. Dublin. Mr. Kevin Rickard, 23 St. Lawrence's Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin, to demolish existing kitchen extension and wall. To rebuilda new kitchen extension together with a 1 bedroom, kitchen/sitting room extension to the side at 23 St. Lawrence's Terrace, Howth, Co. Dublin. Mr. Gerard Donovan, 'Grange House', Ballyboghil, Co. Dublin, for mansard roof 5 bedroom extension over already approved ground floor swimming pool and games room at the rear at 'Grange House', Ballyboghil, Co. Dublin. Mr. Michael Martin, 12 Mountjoy Square, Dublin 1, for change of use from garage utility unit to light agricultural metal workshop unit, with signage at Kinsealy Service Station, Malahide Road, Kinsealy, Co. Dublin. Mr. J. Butler, 1 Dooroge, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin, for dormer bungalow, biocycle unit and vehicular entrance on an already approved site [Reg. Ref. No. F99A/304] at Mainscourt, Ballyboughal, Co. Dublin Kevin and Joan Doyle, Dunsoghly, St. Margaret's, Co. Dublin, for retention of attic conversion with 4 no. roof lights to rear roof area at Dunsoghy, St. Margaret's, Co. Dublin. T. Moore, Jordanstown, Lusk, Co. Dublin, for dormer dwelling and biocycle system at Skerries Road, Lusk, Co. Dublin. A. O'Connell, "Danesfort", Old Carrickbrack Road, Howth, Dublin 13. for demolition of existing two-storey residence and construction of new two-storey house and installation of biocycle waste treatment system sy Danesfort, Old Carrickbrack Road, Howth, Dublin 13. Raya Investments Ltd., 808 Howth Road, Co. Dublin, for proposed 2 no. detached dwellings (2 storey with attic room) new boundary wall, entrance gates and site works at 101 Howth Road, Co. Dublin. Requests for Site Notice. Henry Tolan, North Beach, Rush, Co. Dublin, for retention and completion of bungalow, garage and biocycle system at North Beach, Rush, Co. Dublin. Conor Weldon, Hayestown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for construction of a four bedroomed dormer bungalow at Coast Road, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin. Catriona Farrell, 50 Hayestown, Rush, Co. Dublin, for construction of a a four bedroomed dormer bungalow at Coast Road, Rogerstown, Rush, Co. Dublin. Alison Richardson, 5 Moyne Road, Baldoyle, for cead pleanala iomlan a fhail i gcomhair for theach a dheanamh ar teach ag uimhir a cuig bothar Moyan, Baldoyle, Baile Atha Cliath ag uimhir a cuig bothar Moyne, Baldoyle, Baile Atha Cliath.  Requests for TIME EXTENSIONS: Mr. and Mrs. Frank Fitzpatrick, 256 Sutton Park, Sutton, Dublin 13, for two storey house at side and vehicular entrance at 256 Sutton Park at 256 Sutton Park, Sutton, Dublin 13. Agnew Bros. Ltd., 468 Strand Road, Portmarnock, Co. Dublin, for first floor extension comprising of 4 no. two bedroom apartments, 3 no. one bedroom apartments and a surgery ground floor extension comprising of new retail unit and access stairs to first floor, and change of use from existing ground floor retail unit to staircase and storage area. at Feltrim Shopping Centre, Drynam, Swords, Co. Dublin.  The following applications were WITHDRAWN: Ms. M. Shiels, Leas Cross, Swords, Co. Dublin, for conversion and extension of existing detached garage to side of dwelling, to provide new granny flat together with new detached garage at Leas Cross, Swords, Co. Dublin.  DECISIONS OF AN BORD PLEANALA: APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: Earlscliffe, Baily, Howth, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Retention of vehicular access and the provision of limited car parking, including pedestrian access to Heritage Gardens and single information board. APPLICANT: David Robinson APPEAL DECISION: Grant Permission COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: Sundrive Road, Rush, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: retention of dormer bungalow as built. APPLICANT: S. Corrigan APPEAL DECISION: Appeal Withdrawn COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: Station Master's House, Malahide, Co. Dublin PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Change of use of the Station Master's House from offices to restaurant incorporating single storey extension of ground floor with mezanine restaurant use, also to front and side of same. APPLICANT: E. Rooney, L. O'Dea and P. Reid APPEAL DECISION: Refuse Permission COUNCILS DECISION: REFUSE PERMISSION LOCATION: An Cuan, The Square, Skerries, Co. Dublin. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT: Single storey extension to rear. APPLICANT: Patricia Carty and Peter Heffernan  APPEALS NOTIFIED BY AN BORD PLEANALA GRANT PERMISSION: Aer Rianta cpt, Stockhole, Co. Dublin. adjacent to Swords Road, for retention of a ground level car park, adjacent to Swords Road. REFUSE OUTLINE PERMISSION: P. Ellis, Barnageeragh, Skerries, Co. Dublin, for farm and dwelling with biological sewage unit. GRANT PERMISSION: Dolmen Developments Ltd., Coach Road, Balrothery, Co. Dublin, for development of shop unit, one number office/commercial unit over shop, three number townhouse units in courtyard-style arrangement to rear of shop. GRANT PERMISSION: M. Thorne, Ballykea, Loughshinny, for parsnip washing and storage shed with staff facilities and waste treatment system. GRANT PERMISSION: Aer Rianta cpt, for temporary Park & Ride Carpark, Dublin Airport, Harristown townland, Co. Dublin, adjacent to the South Parallel Road, and extension to the existing temporary Park & Ride car park. 
