housing
{ Conor Skehan 
    July 22 2018 05:30 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/increasingly-it-is-the-true-value-of-the-house-that-counts-37141751.html }
It is becoming clear that the increase of house prices is slowing - according to the Central Statistics Office, which published data last Friday that shows a levelling-off of house price rises.  The May 2018 Residential Property Price Index reveals a steadily continuing increase in volumes of property sales. In these figures, everyone should note that only a quarter of the 2,834 recorded transactions were for new properties. The figures for increasing ''housing supply'' consist mainly of second-hand houses for sale, plus a smaller proportion of newly-built dwellings. In our obsession with counting, have we all lost sight of the fact that the majority of housing transactions consist of second-hand homes? Increasing confidence, less negative equity, available cash and other factors are the real drivers of this increased supply of housing. Some of these houses are occupied, but many have been under-utilised or vacant - so their sale will add considerably to the net housing stock. Why do we keep obsessing about new house completions when they are such a small part of the supply? New housing supply is increasing more rapidly than most predicted and, while there will be arguments about the exact figures, the direction of travel is acknowledged by all to be steadily upwards. Estimates of 2018 housing completions are 23,000, 23,000 and 22,000 in forecasts by the Central Bank, CIF and AIB respectively. All of this conforms with the predictions - widely derided - that I made only last year when I predicted that supply would reach 20,000 units by Q4 of 2018, so I'll be expecting those doubters to cough up those wagered bottles. These figures of steadily increased availability of houses for sale - coupled with increasing supply - means that, once again, housing will confound the pundits. House prices are approaching a more sustainable plateau because of these combining increases in supply. These new prices still look shocking compared to prices in 2006 - but it's easy to forget how much bigger, busier and wealthier Ireland has become in the meanwhile. Affordability is always relative. Most commentators are giving credit to the Central Bank rules for this. This misses the point; the nature of housing in Ireland has changed irrevocably - other deeper factors are at work. These factors can be summarised as ''SAD'': Sanity, Availability, Desirability. Central Bank rules are enforcing sanity - by keeping purchase prices in touch with what can be afforded as a portion of disposable income. The refusal or inability to pay excessive prices is working through to the profit expectations of developers who are [so far] avoiding the temptation to over-pay for site purchase - which is the main driver of house-price inflation. Now, before we get too excited, please heed my warnings in this newspaper, last September, that housing is not a normal market which is constrained by the simple laws of supply and demand. Footloose international investment capital - which pays little heed to supply and demand - has the potential to dramatically undermine this emerging stability fuelling runaway house price inflation by acting as a "propellant", to quote Ann Pettifor at the recent FEPS-TASC annual conference. Availability refers to the reality of city-scale. Our larger settlements - especially Dublin - have crossed a threshold of size where simple scarcity makes outright ownership increasingly unaffordable closer to town. (There's that law of supply again.) More than 30pc of Dublin's residents now rent and this will probably increase to 50pc in the near future. This is normal for larger cities all over the world. This new normal, combined with the majority of employment now being located along the edges of cities, is increasing the attractiveness of locations near orbital employment hubs that are within a 40-minute travel time from home. These places have proven to have the ample accommodation, amenities and schools that have created vibrant new communities in once-derided, but now much-loved, "commuter towns". Desirability refers to the biggest and most overlooked driver of change - the changing preferences of society. Values change with each generation. As they change our behaviour, priorities and choices change too. Irish values are rapidly urbanising. We travel, we learn and we appreciate the trade-offs between convenience and craic. We want to live where the action is, for as long as possible, with friends, in public - but not necessarily in pubs. Quality of life will matter more than anything. We eat out, hang out and wander about - with friends. We marry and settle down much later, if at all. About a third of us will live alone. A half to a third of us will rent - some for decades, some for life. These factors mean that we'll own less, rent more, live in different places, settle in different places and settle for different priorities. Most commentators are looking in the wrong places at the wrong issues and the wrong types of homes - the "des res" of the chattering classes are no longer the bellwether of housing. The story has moved. It has moved out to the towns of Greater Dublin and into rental properties near the centres of towns and cities. This excessively narrow and wrong focus is causing commentators and policy- makers to miss the real story - because it is elsewhere and ''other''. The real story is the Dublin Region - housing in Edenderry, in Carlow and in Kilkenny. The ''other story'' is priorities. All over the world, vibrant, strongly growing cities always have the same list of problems - congestion, costs, affordable housing and amenities. Dublin is one of the cities that is privileged to have these problems that follow success. The challenge for Government is to address these real issues - not by seeking to avoid them with the ''Anywhere-But-Dublin'' approach of the fatally flawed National Planning Framework. The National Planning Framework seeks to address these symptoms of success by simply moving people elsewhere to avoid the problems - instead of dealing them through better management, finance and planning. In a related development last week, the Government launched a laudable initiative to establish an agency to develop major social housing projects on State lands. This is exactly the role that the National Building Agency used to fulfil during its years as a standard-setter for Irish house design, albeit very expensively - which makes the cost-saving promise of the initiative moot. While the announcement may represent another milestone in the realisation of the successful ''Rebuilding Ireland'' initiative, it contained very worrying signs of both the intent and mechanisms that lie behind the ill-advised National Planning Framework. Senior officials were quoted as saying that this initiative "has teeth". The general tone paints a picture of officials in full prescriptive mode by promising "master-planning and re-purposing for strategic development purposes, aligned to the National Planning Framework" - telling us where we should be living, as opposed to facilitating where we might want to live. Furthermore, it will be expecting a lot for social housing - which makes up only 10pc of housing stock - to be expected to carry the weight of much, if any, of the large National Planning Framework. This might be a piece of harmless foolishness - because ''the market'' (what people want) always bucks ''the plan'', except for those people who have least choice about where to live. It is a sad fact that social housing tenants are vulnerable because they can be forced to live in places that are selected by unaccountable officials who need to show that their plan is working. This is not an idle fear. Indeed, it could be regarded as one of Irish planning's great secrets that many would rather forget. Years of enforced decisions about the location of social housing have resulted in many smaller towns having disproportionately high populations of social tenancy - which has created significant challenges for the economic viability of these settlements. The social housing proportion of any settlement should never exceed 10pc of its population. Our housing recovery is well underway. Housing as an issue will always be contested space because of ever-increasing expectations and entitlements and also because of the dynamic nature of towns and cities themselves. The affordability, availability and equity of housing supply is never ''solved'' - it just becomes less bad. The biggest issue to understand and accept is that the next generation thinks of housing completely differently. It is more interested in the ''true price of the house'' - implications for lifestyle, values and quality of life that arise from their choice of the location and type of housing - and not the house price. Sunday Independent 
