housing
{  
    July 24 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/news/cost-of-affordable-housing-criticised-cllrs-agree-that-houses-over-75000-are-too-expensive-27282432.html }
The concept of 'affordable housing' priced at £75,000 or more was given a good mauling recently by Enniscorthy town councillors at their July meeting. The scheme provides homes at less than the cost on the open market, with successful applicants taking out council mortgages. The U.D.C. in Enniscorthy has been proceeding with the initiative in two locations. The first is the six houses provided by Wexford builder William Neville & Sons at the Paddocks estate in Bellefield. The second is a specially commissioned development called Millbrook on council land at the Ross Road where nine houses are currently under construction. The eventual aim is to have 32 there. Earlier this month, an applicant was allocated one of the houses in the Paddocks, where the three-bedroomed house comes with a price tag of £79,000. Two applicants then withdrew from the race when they were not successful in the draw, leaving nine names in the hat for the nine houses at Millbrook where the buyers need to find £75,000. Council official Kevin Redmond revealed last week that a total of 393 applications have been received across County Wexford for affordable housing. He also pointed out that the gap between the open market and accommodation provided by the scheme is greater in Gorey, where prices are pegged close to Dublin levels, than parts of New Ross, for example. Cllr. Jackser Owens, a regular critic of the initiative, was worried that people on the Enniscorthy housing list could not afford the new houses in the Paddocks or in Millbrook. He reckoned that the mortgage repayments facing those who take up the council offers will not be affordable and he called for the Minister for the Environment to take steps to lower the asking price. The Moran Park independent pointed out that only 30 households among the 230 on the U.D.C.'s housing list bothered to make application under the scheme. Many of the 30 have since withdrawn because of the expense, especially when solicitor's fees are taken into account. 'It's a lot of money,' he concluded. 'At that rate, they might as well buy privately.' Fine Gael's Paddy Kavanagh agreed with Cllr. Owens that certainly people depending on social welfare payments would not be able to take on a commitment to affordable housing. Independent Sean Og Doyle remarked that the only way for the Government to tackle the housing crisis in earnest is to allocate more money to local councils such as the U.D.C. for its own building programme. Cllr. Tom Moorehouse of Fine Gael was concerned that some couples are putting themselves 'head and heels in debt' in order to join the affordable housing scheme. He predicted that repayments of £350 per month would prove very difficult for those concerned and reckoned that some families would be left with no more than £60 per week to live on. 'These houses are unaffordable,' he said. 'There are some very depressed young couples out there.' He pointed out that the original price on the homes in Millbrook was expected to be £58,000 but this rocketed to £75,000 by the time they came on the market. Cllr. Moorehouse predicted gloomily that the amount required will rise even more in future phases of the scheme at Ross Road. Fianna Fail's Peter Byrne accepted that houses in question are not affordable for everyone and called for the scheme to be made more accessible by allowing the council to grant 100 per cent mortgages, instead of covering just 95 per cent of the cost. Independent U.D.C. member John O'Rourke dismissed the affordable housing as a joke and was roundly critical of the way that prospective home owners are obliged to shell out two sets of solicitor's fees, covering not only their own legal costs but those of the council as well.  DAVID MEDCALF Enniscorthy z The concept of 'affordable housing' priced at £75,000 or more was given a good mauling recently by Enniscorthy town councillors at their July meeting. The scheme provides homes at less than the cost on the open market, with successful applicants taking out council mortgages. The U.D.C. in Enniscorthy has been proceeding with the initiative in two locations. The first is the six houses provided by Wexford builder William Neville & Sons at the Paddocks estate in Bellefield. The second is a specially commissioned development called Millbrook on council land at the Ross Road where nine houses are currently under construction. The eventual aim is to have 32 there. Earlier this month, an applicant was allocated one of the houses in the Paddocks, where the three-bedroomed house comes with a price tag of £79,000. £75,000 houses Two applicants then withdrew from the race when they were not successful in the draw, leaving nine names in the hat for the nine houses at Millbrook where the buyers need to find £75,000. Council official Kevin Redmond revealed last week that a total of 393 applications have been received across County Wexford for affordable housing. He also pointed out that the gap between the open market and accommodation provided by the scheme is greater in Gorey, where prices are pegged close to Dublin levels, than parts of New Ross, for example. Cllr. Jackser Owens, a regular critic of the initiative, was worried that people on the Enniscorthy housing list could not afford the new houses in the Paddocks or in Millbrook. He reckoned that the mortgage repayments facing those who take up the council offers will not be affordable and he called for the Minister for the Environment to take steps to lower the asking price. The Moran Park independent pointed out that only 30 households among the 230 on the U.D.C.'s housing list bothered to make application under the scheme. Many of the 30 have since withdrawn because of the expense, especially when solicitor's fees are taken into account. 'It's a lot of money,' he concluded. 'At that rate, they might as well buy privately.' Fine Gael's Paddy Kavanagh agreed with Cllr. Owens that certainly people depending on social welfare payments would not be able to take on a commitment to affordable housing. Independent Sean Og Doyle remarked that the only way for the Government to tackle the housing crisis in earnest is to allocate more money to local councils such as the U.D.C. for its own building programme. Cllr. Tom Moorehouse of Fine Gael was concerned that some couples are putting themselves 'head and heels in debt' in order to join the affordable housing scheme. Families on breadline He predicted that repayments of £350 per month would prove very difficult for those concerned and reckoned that some families would be left with no more than £60 per week to live on. 'These houses are unaffordable,' he said. 'There are some very depressed young couples out there.' He pointed out that the original price on the homes in Millbrook was expected to be £58,000 but this rocketed to £75,000 by the time they came on the market. Cllr. Moorehouse predicted gloomily that the amount required will rise even more in future phases of the scheme at Ross Road. Fianna Fail's Peter Byrne accepted that houses in question are not affordable for everyone and called for the scheme to be made more accessible by allowing the council to grant 100 per cent mortgages, instead of covering just 95 per cent of the cost. Independent U.D.C. member John O'Rourke dismissed the affordable housing as a joke and was roundly critical of the way that prospective home owners are obliged to shell out two sets of solicitor's fees, covering not only their own legal costs but those of the council as well. 
