housing
{  
    August 12 2016 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/building-for-the-future-34948301.html }
The woman at the head of the housing department in Fingal has a massive job on her hands and faces perhaps the biggest crisis in housing provision this county has ever been up against with social housing waiting lists of around 10,000 and too many families seeking emergency accommodation and facing homelessness. Margaret Geraghty does bring a wealth of experience to the role though with more than 30 years working in local authorities and more than a decade's experience working in various housing roles, first with Dublin City Council and now with Fingal County Council. Talking about her background, Ms Geraghty told the Fingal Independent: 'I worked in Dublin City Council for 31 years and for a good third of that or more was spent in different housing roles. I worked on setting up the affordable housing scheme back in 2005 when we had a previous housing crisis and we had to deliver quickly and I've also worked in Ballymun when the new Ballymun was built and I worked in the Finglas area where we did a very significant regeneration of Finglas South, which was one of those big estates that was built in the 60s and 70s. So, I'm a long time knocking around the housing area and I'm very fond of it and very passionate about it.' The Fingal housing director added: 'I've worked in many roles but one of the things about working in housing is that you are actually talking about and giving people a place they can call home and that is the big thing you really have to keep at the centre of everything you do. Out of that then, when people have that base, that's when we can all build our futures - when you have a place to call home. 'So for me, and it might sound a bit trite but it's a really important function that the local authorities deliver. You always have to think about what you are doing and why you are doing it and how that will work in the future because you are talking about people's lives and trying to support them to have a house and home in which to build their life, so I never underestimate the importance of it.' Asked if the current housing crisis is the most difficult problem she has faced in her time in the local authority housing sector, Ms Geraghty said: 'I think none of us who have worked in the housing sector for a long time have worked in a situation where the family homelessness need is as great as it is and that is very difficult and very new. There are a lot of people who have found themselves needing to access homelessness services for the first time. 'We would all have had experiences of homelessness where people have complex needs around addiction or otherwise, or broken family relationships but what we are dealing with now in terms of family homelessness is a very big and challenging thing for anyone working in the housing sector. 'The four Dublin local authorities, because we have the greatest number of families in emergency accommodation, work very closely together on that. It is very frustrating on the one hand, trying to move people on quickly out of emergency accommodation - it's difficult while you are waiting for supply to come into the pipeline. But it's also working very well as a joint role across the four Dublin local authorities because we are all working towards the one objective. 'All of the multiple parts of the trying to deal with the crisis are being dealt with in a co-ordinated way. So on the one hand, it's really the most difficult challenge I've faced in terms of housing and my housing experience but it also, out of it has grown a very co-ordinated approach across the Dublin authorities to work to solve the problem.' The housing department is based in the council's Blanchardstown offices and over there on the ground floor there are a row of hatches where people with often dire housing needs arrive to have their first face to face meeting with council staff and the housing director praised her staff for how they deal with that first, difficult meeting, as they try to help someone facing homelessness, find a place to call to home. Ms Geraghty said: 'I have to say, I'm coming up to one year working in Fingal and I can safely say that the staff working in the housing office on the public counters and otherwise, are extraordinarily committed - housing staff generally are because you know what you are trying to do and you know how important it is to yourself to have a roof over your head. 'So, it is difficult for them and they are dealing with people who are worried and upset and in different circumstances. We do all we can from a management perspective, with my senior people, to support our people on the counters and to help them to deal with difficult decisions and to mind themselves, as well as being compassionate about the people that they meet on a day-to-day basis. 'It is very, very challenging and I think from the chief executive down, that is acknowledged and it's actually appreciated as well as acknowledged in terms of recognising the great work that is done by the people at the counter and in fairness, the councillors have always acknowledged that as well. It is about being there and being available and being able to guide people through the maze that you have to go through to try to address your housing need.' Asked if the growing demands on the housing department means it will need more front-line staff, the housing director said: 'We have been fortunate so far in that we did get an increase in our resources and our budget to meet the targets that we have been set already and I think that both the Taoiseach and the Minister have been very strong on their commitment to provide the resources to us to continue to deliver on our targets and meet the new targets that will be set for us. 'So, I'm confident that resources won't be an obstacle to delivery but again, that's something we have to manage on an ongoing basis and we would have a very good dialogue with the Department of Housing and Local Government in that regard. They would be very hands on in knowing where our housing list is that and we would have very good communications with them in terms of where there might be obstacles to get around or otherwise. 'You will never have enough, probably and local authorities have lost a lot of experienced staff over the last number of years and that is a challenge. People have retired and left the system who were very experienced and new people have come in and that is a challenge that you have to deal with. 'Sometimes it is good to have people who have worked in it before alongside people who are new to housing. It's not just a question of resources and numbers, it's about the people you have and how you support and develop the people you have along with getting in any additional resources you might need.' With her experience in the housing sector, Ms Geraghty went into this role with her eyes open and knowing the depth of the challenge she would face in addressing Fingal's massive needs for social and affordable housing - so why did she take on a role that many might have viewed as something of a poison chalice? She said: 'In applying for the role in Fingal, if you go for a job in the public sector you don't know what specific role you are applying for. You know the level you are being recruited at is at director level. So, I was just applying for a role in Fingal and I was very interested in coming to Fingal because Fingal has a really good reputation as a proactive county. 'It's a very diverse county with a great mix of urban and rural and it has a really young population and it seemed like it has great assets and I saw it as something very worthwhile to do, to gain experience working in another local authority. Whatever the role I was asked to do, I would do it but when Paul Reid, the chief executive, said I was getting the housing brief, I have to say I was genuinely delighted. I've always enjoyed working in housing. It's not a single issue, it's very complex, you are dealing with people all the time and you are dealing with building the future of the local authority in any are and housing has a fundamental party to play in that. I was delighted to get the opportunity.' Fingal Independent 
