housing
{ Katy McGuinness 
    October 05 2018 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/home-garden/homes/its-not-fair-their-house-is-nicer-than-mine-architect-who-designed-brothers-south-dublin-home-and-painted-it-charcoal-37380648.html }
Open House Dublin 2018 - Ireland's largest public festival of architecture - famously offers an opportunity to all of us just once a year to visit more than 100 buildings, many of them not usually open to the public. The visit trail coincides with a full programme of events and all tours and openings are free to attend, although donations to charity partner, the Peter McVerry Trust for Homelessness, are actively encouraged.  Run by the Irish Architecture Foundation, this year's event is taking place on October 12 and 14 next and the theme is Tomorrow's Past: Discover our Future Heritage. For the first time, the festival programme will feature a building from each and every decade from 1700 right up to present day. Alongside structures such as the Department of Finance HQ and The Four Courts, both of which feature in this year's programme, a number of private houses are also included. Among these are three Dublin houses which have been extended and refurbished in recent years under architectural guidance. For homeowners thinking of embarking on an extension project of their own, it's a chance to find inspiration in the endeavours of others. The first, and most transformational of the three is the extension and renovation of a small former corporation house at 62 Eden Villas in Glasthule, Dublin by architects Ciara Murray and Sinéad Bourke of NEWMARK. 
Close
 The Eden extension exterior and garden / "They say never work with family," says Ciara Murray, who recently completed an extension of her brother Eoin's house in Glasthule, "but it worked very well for us. Often it takes a long time for a client to trust the architect because they don't know us, but Eoin and Kate [O'Donnell] (pictured above with Evie Murray, age one) already trusted us. Working with another architect means that you have to push yourself, and that pushes the design," says Ciara. "Sinead and I worked very closely on this." No. 62 has a good orientation, with the garden facing south-west. "The most important thing in any house is the light," says Ciara. "You can change lots of things, but you can't change the orientation. At Eden Villas, the corner site gave us lots of interesting angles to work with. As the extension is two storeys to the side and over 430 sq ft, planning permission was required. The biggest change that we made was to move the entrance to the side. The house is painted charcoal and there's a larch insert, so the door really stands out. It's very simple, but charcoal grey really cleans up a house like this. "Inside, we totally gutted the house, so what was the original entire ground floor is now just the living room, and you enter via a small hall into the dining area and kitchen. The stairs has become the pivot point for the whole house. Upstairs, there's a new bedroom and bathroom, as well as two spare rooms. The house is too tight for ensuites. We more than doubled the size of the existing house, bringing it from 538 sq ft to 1184 sq ft and brought it all up to standard in terms of building regulations and insulation." Outside, raised beds and a wraparound bench have created an outdoor patio space that got plenty of use this past summer. "Eoin and Kate could have spent less," says Ciara, "but they like nice finishes. They chose Kilsaran polished concrete floors with underfloor heating, a bespoke kitchen and lovely light Reynaers aluminium sliding doors out to the patio. Every time I drive away I think, 'that's not fair - their house is nicer than mine'." 
Close
 The extension at Kenilworth Park house / Ciara reckons that a similar project now - this was completed just over a year ago - would cost upwards of €200,000. The builder here was Novus Construction, selected after a competitive tender. The next extended private home on the Open House Trail for 2018 is Kenilworth Park House in Dublin 6, a period part red- brick three-storey semi which was taken on by architect Ryan Kennihan. "My clients at Kenilworth Park House were a family who needed more space as their children were getting older," says Kennihan. "They had lived in the house for a long time and had undertaken a renovation before, but they wanted something better, more dramatic and more beautiful. They wanted to make something special. "Typically, in this kind of house, the main reception rooms to the front are nice, but at the back the rooms are small, with low ceilings. We demolished the existing extension and tried to create something extraordinary that was in dialogue with the rest of the house. We brought the timber band from the front elevation round to the back, and at the front of the house there's a brick arch at the entryway that we echoed in the arch that leads into the vaulted dining area. We put in a beautiful, dramatic rooflight, not just a Velux. "What exists now is something new in a period setting that's utterly timeless and as well-constructed as the original, rather than just another white box." As the extension was single storey, to the back, and less than 430 sq ft in area, no planning permission was required. The work was carried out by BSG Homes under a negotiated contract and took about five months. "I work with them regularly and know I can rely on them," says Ryan. "The cost came in at well under €200,000. For that my clients got a new kitchen by Brendan Kavanagh, storage, patio, a shed, an upstairs ensuite and some custom-made pieces. Within the open plan space there are distinct zones, and Alan Meredith made a bespoke dining table and bench to sit under the vaulted section. We also re-organised the garden." Last up for Open House viewing is a mid 20th century semi at 32 Annaville Park in Dundrum, Dublin where architect Séamus Bairéad did the honours for his sister Nora, and her husband. "The house was an ideal candidate for a wraparound extension," explains Séamus, "as it is semi-detached and south-facing at the back, with room to extend both to the side and the rear. As well as getting an open-plan kitchen/living/dining space that opened out to the garden and an extra bedroom, Nora also wanted to add on a porch, downstairs lavatory and utility room." So, rather than add on a large 'glass box' to the back, Séamus designed a two-storey extension on three sides of the house - the front, the side and the back - with plug ins to the existing house at five different points. The footprint of the house is only extended by a couple of metres at any point, but the overall living space increased from 1184 sq ft to 1722 sq ft. "By making small additions to the existing building," says Seamus, "we were able to change it quite significantly, and at the same time avoid the unwanted side effect that a large extension to the rear can have, which is to kill the middle room, by leaving it with no light and very little air." Planning permission was granted in May 2016, and construction started in January 2017 after a competitive tender won by Morgan Building Services, who had recently completed work on a similar house nearby. The cost of the extension, with a refurbishment of the existing house that included insulation, plumbing, electrics and a new kitchen, plus a new boundary wall, came in at around €200,000. See openhousedublin.com Indo Property 
