USA
{  
    December 13 2015 09:33 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/mma/conor-mcgregor-reveals-how-he-will-celebrate-and-predicts-what-his-fans-will-do-to-the-vegas-strip-34282859.html }
Undisputed UFC featherweight champion Conor McGregor has revealed  how he plans to toast the biggest victory of his career in Las Vegas. Speaking at his post-fight press conference after his stunning one-punch knockout of former champ Jose Aldo, McGregor laid out his plans for the evening. A 1-PUNCH KO! The Undisputed Featherweight Champion! @TheNotoriousMMA. #UFC194 https://t.co/eH7csD4Q36 "The strip will be green, with and orange. I have an after party at the SLS so I'm going to have some steak with my family , a little bit of food and then I'm going to celebrate with my fans who are at the after party," he said. "A little drink or two and then just rest for the night and see what tomorrow brings." The champ is here! @TheNotoriousMMA is ready to celebrate at the official @ufc #UFC194 afterparty @foxtailatsls pic.twitter.com/ODMAlQb6f3 McGregor enjoys incredible following from his compatriots wherever he goes and the 27-year-old has been revelling in the attention all week. "I've been soaking it in all week, at the weigh-in yesterday I wanted to stay on the stage, I smiled and I took it in. I took a second. The same out there. I felt at home," he added. "All through the week, I've been looking at videos Irish going crazy  in Las Vegas and the Q&A with Holly... the Irish fans... yo can't beat them. We are making this sport what it is today. "The whole world is looking at our country, the eyes are on the Irish. I'm proud of that and very, very grateful. "I'm extremely proud of my nations and grateful for all the people who have came over. "The fans all weekend have been amazing. We are good people, no trouble, we just wanna have a good time." One of his ambitions is to bring a title fight to a stadium in Ireland and that remains firmly on his radar. "If they offer me Croke Park or the football stadium, you are damn right I'm going to take it." Online Editors 
