USA
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk 
    December 13 2015 09:57 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/mma/revealed-conor-mcgregor-offered-jose-aldo-a-rematch-after-dropping-him-in-13-seconds-34282876.html }
Beaten champion Jose Aldo demanded a rematch after seeing his title disappear in 13 seconds and Conor McGregor seems only too happy to oblige. In his post-fight press conference, Ireland's undisputed UFC featherweight champ admitted that he did feel slightly sorry for the Brazilian and the manner in which he lost the crown he held for a decade. "I told him we can go again, although it's a nice feeling to get the knockout...you don't want to see a champions like that going down like that," he said. "I had a moment where I felt sorry for him.  A 1-PUNCH KO! The Undisputed Featherweight Champion! @TheNotoriousMMA. #UFC194 https://t.co/eH7csD4Q36 "It's been a long road and I appreciate that he turned up. "I said we can do it again but he was off in his own world I think." McGregor had predicted a first round knockout in the lead-up to the fight but could not have imagined that it would come in such a short space of time. "I knew he would over-extend, I knew I would catch him. Mystic Mac strikes again," he added "It would have been nice if the contest had stretched out a little bit longer just for all it's been through but I still feel the same process would have happened. "I respect Jose, I wish him well but now we are on to the next chapter. "It's not the first time I've done that. I have a four second KO on my resume, now I have a 13 second and I have a 16 second (KO), I have had many early stoppage wins. "I feel I have the shots, the timing, the precision. With the correct amount of force and the correct timing... the human chin can't take it. "He was the pound-for-pound best fighter on the roster, undefeated in 10 years and he's undefeated featherweight champion... who comes in and predicts one round KOs. I did. "I do enjoy the numbers, i make no secret of that, I do enjoy breaking records and I'll add that to my list of broken records." McGregor had also predicted that he would retire Aldo.  Asked if we would see the Brazilian in the octagon again, he responded: "That's up to him. I think maybe he could take a step back and re-centre himself. "He felt the pressure like he has never felt before... that's because he was facing me. "I think Jose should come back and regroup and get back in line for a number one contender spot." Online Editors 
