USA
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk 
    December 13 2015 12:58 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/mma/ufc-champion-conor-mcgregor-outlined-the-three-options-available-to-him-for-his-next-fight-34283006.html }
Conor McGregor made himself a lot of money last night by knocking out Jose Aldo but he also created a lot of options regarding his next fight and what 2016 has in store for The Notorious. His coach John Kavanagh had hinted that he would not want to see McGregor go through another big weight cut and suggested a move to the lightweight division. A move from 145lb to 155lb appears to be something that appeals to McGregor but he won't be surrendering his featherweight crown in the process. His intention is to become a dual-weight champion at lightweight and featherweight and UFC president Dana White is unlilkely to stand between the Dubliner and what he wants. The three options he outlined for his next fight included a lightweight title fight against the winner of the upcoming clash between Rafael dos Anjos and Donald Cerrone, a title defence at featherweight against Frankie Edgar (who beat Chad Mendes in the first round of their fight on Friday) or a rematch against Aldo. "I know the option is there for the 155lb belt, I'll sit and I'll watch this. The options are there, er have Frankie (Edgar), who had a good win last night, that could be for the featherweight belt, maybe a Jose rematch or maybe the 155lb strap," he said. "I enjoy options, options are a good thing in the fight game. "There are a couple of contenders in the mix, let them compete while I go up and take the lightweight belt, allow a contender to emerge and then go back down and take out that contender and then go back up after a lightweight contender emerges and take out that contender. That's what I felt my career path was taking shape (towards). "I'm looking to achieve what I did in my previous promotion, a two-weight world champion held consecutively. I said I would do it and I will do it. "I'll tell you one thing that's not happening. If I go up to that lightweight division, there is no way  in hell that I'm vacating that (featherweight) belt that's not happening. "There will be a belt on one shoulder and one on the other shoulder." The weight cut will not be factor in how McGregor proceeds with his career if his post-fight comments are anything to go by. "I giggle all the time because every time I step up on the scales and step off the scales they say, 'it's the worst I ever seen him'...'he better rehydrate correct or he's in a lot of trouble'," he added. "Don't get me wrong, it's a tough weight cut but tell me one time I've missed it, tell me one time I haven't turned up the next day fresh. "Everyone on that stage that makes weight, is not in the freshest of states. This is the business." Online Editors 
