USA
{  
    May 21 2013 06:24 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/americas/24-people-confirmed-dead-in-us-tornado-disaster-29283803.html }
Barack Obama has declared a major disaster in Oklahoma after a mile-wide tornado struck the outskirts of Oklahoma City, killing a confirmed 24 people and trapping two dozen children inside the rubble of a school.  As the president ordered federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts, the scale of the destruction and loss was brutally clear, with whole neighbourhoods reduced to piles of debris by the storm. The hardest hit area was the suburb of Moore, home to 55,000 people, where a primary school with children sheltering inside was razed. Rescuers managed to pull at least 30 of the estimated 75 children from the Plaza Tower school, but at least two dozen more were believed to be inside, Most of them are feared to have died when the tornado struck. In one amazing example of bravery, six children were saved when their teacher, who sustained serious injuries, used her body to sheild them. James Rushing, who lives across the street, heard reports of the approaching tornado and ran to the school, where his five-year-old foster son, Aiden, attends classes. Mr Rushing believed he would be safer there. “About two minutes after I got there, the school started coming apart,” he said. The students managed to shelter inside a bathroom while the tornado raged, he said. Below: Plaza Towers Elementary School before and after the tornadoSeven died at the school which was almost directly in the path of the eye of the tornado. The interactive graphic below shows the scale of the devastation.  Elsewhere, reports said four people died as they tried to shelter in a freezer and another seven drowned in a pond. The force of the tornado was terrifying. One woman who was trapped inside her home, which collapsed in the wind, rang her daughter to tell her she couldn’t breathe. Tiffany Thronesberry said she heard from her mother, Barbara Jarrell, shortly after the tornado struck. “I got a phone call from her screaming, 'Help! Help! I can’t breathe. My house is on top of me!’” she said. She was later pulled out of the ruins of her home alive. As night fell, rescue teams continued to search for survivors in the rubble of homes, shops and public buildings.   This map shows the path of the tornado (in red) across the suburb of Moore - click on Full Map below for more details.   The Oklahoma medical examiner confirmed 51 deaths including 20 children, making it the deadliest US tornado since one killed 161 people in Joplin, Missouri. Area hospitals reported at least 230 people injured, including at least 45 children. The National Weather Service Storm Prediction Center provided the town with a warning 16 minutes before the tornado, with winds of up to 200 mph, touched down at 3:01pm local time (2001 GMT). Television media measured the tornado at more than two miles wide, with images showing blocks of homes levelled by the twister, cars piled atop one another and buildings on fire. The National Weather Service assigned the twister a preliminary ranking of EF4 on the Enhanced Fujita Scale, meaning the second most powerful category of tornado. “The whole city looks like a debris field,” Glenn Lewis, the mayor of Moore, told NBC. “It looks like we have lost our hospital. I drove by there a while ago and it’s pretty much destroyed,” he said. Fire, rescue and emergency medical teams from across the state converged on Moore, said Terri Watkins, a spokesman for the Oklahoma Department of Emergency Management. “They are going to going to go house to house, building to building to determine whether anyone is trapped,”Ms Watkins said. Amid the chaos, stories of survival emerged. “We thought we died because we were inside the cellar door...It ripped open the door and just glass and debris started slamming on us and we thought we were dead to be honest,” Ricky Stover said while surveying the devastated remains of his home. Cyndi Christopher was at work and went to pick up her son from daycare when she heard the storm warning. After taking her son home, she was forced to flee when she noticed the storm was coming their way. “I drove as fast as I could and I outran the storm,” she said. Online Editors 
