USA
{  
    December 18 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/sport/other-sports/twenty-six-tipperary-27445978.html }
Fergal Collins competed in the Boys 13 &amp; Under Singles and had great wins over Keith Kavanagh, Wicklow, Gary Marshall, Kerry, Cian Coonehan, Kerry but eventually lost out in the Semi-Final to the eventual winner and his partner Seamus OCarroll from Limerick.	Fergal teamed up with Seamus in the Boys 13 &amp; Under Doubles and achieved outright success.  They defeat Fergal Collins competed in the Boys 13 & Under Singles and had great wins over Keith Kavanagh, Wicklow, Gary Marshall, Kerry, Cian Coonehan, Kerry but eventually lost out in the Semi-Final to the eventual winner and his partner Seamus O’Carroll from Limerick. Fergal teamed up with Seamus in the Boys 13 & Under Doubles and achieved outright success. They defeated Daragh Cloake and Jason Murphy from Wexford in the 1st round and Conor Duff and Paul Connelly from Tyrone in the 2nd round, Thomas Lennick and Ebin Brown from the USA in the semi-Final and Conor Grogan and Caolan Daly from Tyrone in the final. This was indeed an outstanding achievement for Fergal and has brought honour and distinction to both his club and county. Ger Coonan from Ballina took part in the Boys 17 & Under Singles and defeated Gareth Brown from Down in the 1st round. He then had wins over Lee Conlon from Monaghan, and Patrick Hogan from Kilkenny before finally losing out to the eventual winner Robert McCarthy from Westmeath in the Semi-Final. Ger teamed up with Brian Carroll from Meath to take part in the 17 & Under Doubles. They defeated Daniel O’Halloran and Paul Lynch from Clare in the 1st round and continued with wins over Ryan Bowler and Jason Roos from Canada in the 2nd round. They went on to beat Gary McRory and Padraig McGlinchy from Tyrone in the Semi-Final but lost out again to Robert McCarthy and John O’Shaughnessy from Westmeath in the Final on a score line of 16-21,21-19,11-07. Karen Collins from Ballina beat Loretta Murphy from Kilkenny in the 1st round of the 17 & Under Girls Singles but lost out to Sinead Tevlin from Meath in the 2nd round. Karen teamed up with Sarah Flavin from Limerick for the 17 & U Doubles and they beat Claire O’Hagan and Claire McIvor in the 1st round but lost to the eventual winners Sinead Gallagy and Emer Ni Fhaolain from Kildare in the 2nd round. We had six competitors in the Mens C Singles. Both John Lee and Paul Coleman from Ballina went out in the 1st round, John losing to Joel Smith from Dublin while Paul lost to Tom Connors from Wexford. Both David Forde and Michael Forde from Silvermines won their 1st rounds. David defeated Matthew Marcil from Canada but lost out in round two to William Love from Kilkenny. Michael defeated Matthew Valdez from the USA in round one but lost to Mark McCartan in round two. We had four pairings in the Mens C Doubles - Michael Gleeson/Tom Quigley from Silvermines lost their 1st round match to Shane Grogan and Darren McRory from Tyrone. David and Michael Forde from Silvermines won their 1st round against Colin Melody and Alan Pearson from Dublin but lost narrowly in their 2nd round to Anthony Sheridan and James Gregan. Finbarr and Joseph Ryan from Silvermines defeated Thomas Hughes and John Doyle in round one, Michel Gondalaz and Andre Martin of the Basque Country in round two before eventually losing to Colm Love and Michael Maher (Kilkenny). John Kennedy from Silvermines took part in the Mens B Singles and defeated Daniel Marcil from Canada in the 1st round and although John suffered an ankle injury during that game, he took part in the second round but had to give second best to Bernie McDonagh from Galway. John teamed up with Kevin Timmons to take part in the Mens B Doubles but they were beaten by James Brady and Ian Griffin by 21-20,21-14. Des Kelly and Michael Carroll from Ballinahinch also took part in the Mens Doubles and had a very successful campaign. They defeated Rory Moore and Joe Tierney of the USA in round one, Xavier Ubera and Garikoitz Erroizenea from the Basque Country in round two, Darragh Ward and Trevor Winters from Kildare in the Semi-Final before eventually losing to the Conway brothers from Galway, Oliver and Pat in the Final. Tracey Coonan from Ballina joined forces with Sharon Daly from Kerry in the Ladies B Doubles but they were defeated by Eithne Mee from Roscommon who was partnered by Alexis Coultier from Canada. Pat Griffin and Tony Flaherty lost their Masters A Doubles game against Thomas Maguire and Billy Silcock from Antrim, while Tony lost to Don Ryter from the USA in round one of his Silver masters A Singles. Both Paddy Collins, Ballina and Andy Purcell from Silvermines took part in the Golden masters B Singles. Andy lost his first round match to Steve Birell from USA and Paddy, while defeating Steve Leigh from the USA in his 1st round, lost narrowly to Chris Gildea also from the USA in round two. Andy Purcell partnered Denis Gleeson to take part in the Golden masters B Doubles but lost out in their 1st round match against Doug Woods and Larry Brown from the USA. Paddy Collins teamed up with Jeddy McKeogh from Ballina and they defeated Steve Birell and Kevin Olson from the USA in round one (21-20-21-12). They then went on to defeat Seamus Duffy and Pat O’Sullivan from Sligo in round two before losing to Richard Downey and Neville Farrell from Dublin by 21-09,21-13 in the Quarter Final. Jim Ryan from Silvermines was our representative in the Veteran Golden A Singles and defeated Burt Rapine in round one but lost to Ted Pritchard from Canada in round two. Jim joined up with Morgan Darcy from Galway for the Veteran Golden A Doubles and defeated Reubin Ramirez and Bruce Lemon from the USA in round one but lost to Mike Kelly and Alan Sherill USA by 21-12,12-21,11-06 in the tiebreaker. Patrick Maher from Clonmel was our oldest competitor taking part in the Over 60 B Singles and had a 1st round success against Tim Henman from the USA, played in Carrick-on-Suir, but lost to Jay Maxwell from the USA in his 2nd round match. The hosting of the World Championships was very successful from an Irish point of view and full credit is extended to all the Tipperary players who took part in the various venues throughout the country. The venues stretched from Kingscourt in Cavan to Carrick-on-Suir in Tipperary. Many thanks to the Carrick-on-Suir Club for hosting part of the Championships and to Pat McKenna, our Chairman, for supervising at this venue. 
