USA
{  
    September 18 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/breakfast-in-brookline-a-sausage-too-far-26260985.html }
``On paper, they (the Europeans) shouldn't even be caddying for us,'' says American Payne Stewart of next weekend's Ryder Cup. America may indeed have all the best players, but as Paul Kimmage discovers, Europe have a captain who specialises in rescuing his colleagues from sticky situations IN her book Shooting at Clouds: Inside the European PGA Tour, Lauren St John describes a meeting with Mark ``Jesse'' James at his home in Leeds on a cold winters day in December of 1990. A professional golfer since 1976, James was regarded as a rebel on tour. He had promised nothing when she'd phoned with the request. ``If you're looking for controversy,'' he said, ``it probably won't be worth your while coming down here. I'm saving it all for my book.'' Undeterred, she decided to make the trip. The interview lasted the best part of an hour. Intelligent and witty, James spoke freely about the players and the tournaments and the nuts and bolts of the game, but was somewhat guarded whenever the probing reached himself. At the end, St John had formed a clear picture of James, the golfer, but was still in a haze about James, the man. She knew he liked plants and growing his own vegetables and could lose himself in his garden for hours, but little else. Desperate for another insight, she asked if he would tell her something unusual about himself that people would be surprised to hear. He mulled over the request for a moment and explained that he had always been interested in science fiction and was a huge fan of Star Trek. And then he told her about the dream. ``Sometimes,'' he said, ``I have this dream where I'm on the bridge of the Enterprise with Captain Kirk and Spock and we have to land on an alien planet. And if we get into a bit of trouble, I have to bail them out. That's a dream I have quite often.'' NINE years later, except for the names and a few other changes, he's still having them. For the Star Ship Enterprise read the Good Ship Europe. For the alien planet read The Country Club in Brookline. For Captain James T Kirk read Captain James. The Good Ship Europe is heading for trouble. Scotty (Woosie) and Bones (Faldo) and Spock (Langer) are gone. So is the delightful Uhuru (Ballesteros). What's the Captain going to do without the stars that made the show? How does he intend to bail Europe out? On paper, the challenge would appear to be even more formidable then it was at Valderrama. Here's how the tale of the tape compares... Tournament winners  1997 Europe 11 USA 13  1999 Europe 18 USA 13  Major Championships  1997 Europe 0 USA 3  1999 Europe 2 USA 2  Major champions  1997 Europe 4 USA 6  1999 Europe 3 USA 10  Ryder Cup appearances  1997 Europe 35 USA 14  1999 Europe 11 USA 23  Ryder Cup rookies  1997 Europe 5 USA 4  1999 Europe 7 USA 1  Average World Ranking  1997 Europe 37th USA 15th  1999 Europe 40th USA 12th ... but then, we applied exactly the same reasoning last time. And again in '95 before Oak Hill. The Americans may have more of the world's best players, fewer rookies and a course tailored to their strengths, but when it comes to match play and the Ryder Cup, logic doesn't get the ball in the hole. ``I've been on two talented teams (1985 and '87),'' Hal Sutton says, ``and I've been on two experienced teams and we've lost both times. You can write it from as many different angles as you want as to why we haven't gotten it done, but I think it's got to come from inside. We're all going to have to reach down inside and do a little gut-check and decide how bad we want this.'' ``On paper, they shouldn't even be caddying for us,'' Payne Stewart concurs. ``But that isn't what this is about. It's about bringing your game to the event and they bring it.'' They brought it. Can they do it again? Much will depend on James' ability to recreate the winning formula: to build a team that is greater than the sum of its parts. The mind returns to Valderrama and what it must have been like to breakfast with Ballesteros on the morning of the opening battle. To watch his eyes narrow and flicker from player to player. To hear his heart thumping like a clock. To feel desire so strong it almost soured the milk. Extraordinary. And the troops ... Lee Westwood gazing across the toast rack at his fourball partner: Faldo, the last great Englishman. Ignacio Garrido, lost in the wonder of following his father's footsteps and prepared to die for the cause. And at the back of the class, the troublemakers, Bjorn and Woosnam, still smarting at the way they were benched and already plotting revenge. ``Don't worry about it Thomas, we'll shove it down his throat.'' ``Sure Woosie, whatever you say, man.'' Montgomerie may have been the star when the victory was secured, but Seve would never have reigned in Spain were it not for the inspired performances of his rookies: Westwood, Parnevik, Garrido and Bjorn. Who's going to inspire them this time around? Where's the glue going to come from now that Ballesteros, Faldo, Langer and Woosnam are no longer around? IMAGINE what it will be like for Darren Clarke next Friday morning as he prepares to play in the opening fourball. He hasn't slept a wink, his breakfast tastes shit and he is being blinded by the flash of brilliant white teeth from across the table. Jean Van de Velde is smiling again. The Frenchman's incessant good humour is driving him around the twist. ``Bon chance, mon ami,'' he offers, raising a thumb. ``Maybe you will win or maybe you will lose but always remember that there are worse things happening in the world.'' Clarke tries to vent his rage on a sausage but almost chokes. ``Worse things! Worse things!! What the f*** would you know?'' Mark James will need all of his wit and cunning to surmount the obvious (and not so obvious) difficulties facing his team this week. Montgomerie, Westwood and Garcia are the team jewels. With a spit of polish and a shine, Parnevik and Olazabal will provide the backbone of the team. But five players is a short backbone. And move down the list and you enter the great unknown. If ... Clarke can remind himself just how bloody talented he is. If Sandelin can harness his loathing of Mickelson and O'Meara. If Jimenez can pretend he is really Seve Ballesteros. If Lawrie can believe he has reached his rightful place. If Harrington can be ``Himself'' and reproduce his qualifying steel. If Van de Velde can keep forgetting what really happened at Carnoustie, if Coltart finds the game to prove the critics wrong ... ... then, maybe, Europe have a chance.  But that's a lot of ifs. A lot to ask. 
