USA
{ Caitlin McBride 
    July 13 2015 10:33 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/style/fashion/style-talk/five-of-the-most-memorable-answers-at-the-miss-usa-pageant-31372377.html }
The Miss USA has never been short of viral gems when it comes to the Q&A round. 1.	Miss South Carolina at Miss Teen USA 2007: "Everywhere like such as..." Caitlin Upton's explanation as to why one fifth of Americans can’t find their country on a map of the world? “I personally believe that US Americans are unable to do so because some people out there in our nation don’t have maps and I believe that our education, like such as in South Africa and the Iraq, everywhere like such as…I believe they should…our education over here in the US should help South Africa and should help the Iraq and the Asian countries so we will be able to build up a future.”  
    2.	Miss Utah in Miss USA 2013: “We need to create education better” When asked by judge Nene Leakes about the fact that women are the primary earners, but still earn less than men and its reflection on gender roles, Marisa Powell said:  "I think we can relate this back to education and how we are continuing to try to strive to…figure out how to create jobs right now. That is the biggest problem. I think especially men are seen as the leaders of this and so we need to figure out how to create education better so we can solve this problem    3.	Miss California at Miss USA 2009 When Perez Hilton asked her thoughts on same sex marriage, Carrie Ann Prejean said: “I think it’s great that Americans are able to choose one or the other. We live in a land that you can choose same sex marriage or opposite marriage and you know what, in my country, in my family, I believe that a marriage should be between a man and a woman – no offence to anyone out there, but that’s how I was raised and that’s how I think that it should be between a man and a woman.”     4.	Miss USA at Miss Universe 2015 When asked what she would do if she had 30 seconds with a terrorist, Nia Sanchez answered, not ironically:  "I know as Miss USA I can always spread a message of hope and love and peace, and I would do my very best to spread that message to them and everyone else in the world," she said.     5.	Too many contestants to count at Miss USA 2011 When asked if evolution should be taught in schools, they had this to say:    Online Editors 
