USA
{ Fergus Ryan 
    December 13 2015 07:35 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/mma/what-next-for-conor-mcgregor-jose-aldo-and-the-ufc-after-las-vegas-drama-34282838.html }
After nearly a year in the making last night's UFC 194 featherweight title fight shocked the entire MMA world. We knew both men had real KO power and we believed Conor when he said he could get it done in the first. But thirteen seconds into the very first round was not on anyone's radar. Describing his win McGregor was almost poetic. The winning shot was 'precision not power' based on 'timing not speed'. No-one can deny that he is as good as he says he is.  In the aftermath of last night let's take a look at some of the next steps for the principles. A 1-PUNCH KO! The Undisputed Featherweight Champion! @TheNotoriousMMA. #UFC194 https://t.co/eH7csD4Q36 Christmas off and what ever he fancies in 2016.  He is the undisputed king of the featherweight division and will probably fight Frankie Edgar next. Don't rule our that being the main event at UFC 200 in the new Las Vegas arena. Dont rule out that being his last featherweight fight either. By destroying Aldo in 13 seconds he doesn't need to do anything else at 145lbs. I'd expect we'll see him at 155lbs in 2016 as well.  He is also the undisputed star of the UFC. He's PPV gold, a media darling and possibly one of the greatest fighters of all time. While the UFC normally discourage flip flopping between weight division, Conor will be allowed do what ever he likes. The lightweight division.  He needs to get some distance from Conor and a few wins. He's threatened the move up for some time and has always found the weight cut to 145lbs tough. There is no need for a rematch. There is no questions left to answer. If you cant survive 13 seconds why would you expect to be granted another 25 minutes. Harness the McGregor factor all the way to the bank.  For starters, they need to renegotiate the Reebok deal. €70 million for 6 years for 580 odd fighters is a pittance. They would pay that for Conor alone. Conor says wants to be a dual weight champion and defend both belts. The UFC should look to make this happen because it could be a long, long time before any fighter is in this position again. If he succeeds it would be the stuff of legend. Online Editors 
