middle east
{  
    July 21 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/why-israel-will-not-act-proportionately-26375737.html }
'Asymmetrical response' is an expression that would probably puzzle most people even today in Ireland and Britain. But for Israel, and primarily for the Israeli defence forces, it has been standard doctrine since shortly after the time when Israel first declared its independence and was immediately invaded by five Arab armies. The Arab governments at that time were absolutely confident that they would win a quick and easy victory and drive the Jews out of the Middle East. The Arabs were proud of their own martial past and despised the Jews as effete shopkeepers. It was all the more agonising for them, then, that the despised Jews first held them off and then comprehensively defeated them. This was the series of events that is still remembered by all Middle East Arabs and other Muslims as El Naqba, the Disaster. But an active minority of Arabs and Muslims were determined to carry on the war and eventually to kill most of the Jews in the Middle East. In response, the Israeli defence forces established the doctrine of 'disproportionate response'. Even if only a few Jews were killed or captured by the Arabs or Muslims, the Israelis would retaliate with overwhelming force until the Arab and Muslim populations realised that, to save themselves and their territories they would have to discourage the terrorist activists. This disproportionate response is precisely what has been going on in the latest wave of fighting in the Middle East. Most European governments do not understand it and urge Israel to respond proportionately, and the UN General Assembly favours a similar approach. But the United States does not. In the very early years of Israel's independence, the US was disposed to take a line similar to that of the European states of 'holding the balance even' between Israel and its Arab neighbours. But that soon changed. Arabs and Muslims came to ascribe the change to the support of the US for Israel. But that is really not the case. Even if Israel had never existed, Arabs and other Muslims would still have resented the US as having become, after the Second World War, the predominant power in a part of the globe which they felt properly belonged to themselves. But Israel was a convenient whipping-boy and the many people in Britain, for example, who resented the Americans for taking their place in 'holding the gorgeous East in fee' soon found it convenient to focus on American support for Israel. Yet with the fall of Nuri es-Said, the last friend of the US in the Arab world ceased to exist. Israel was now the only power in the Middle East on which the US could count in a crisis. And practical consequences, of great moment, developed from that. The Pentagon and the Israelis soon developed a close working alliance. The Pentagon provided the defence forces with the very latest in weaponry and the US silently supported Israel's doctrine of asymmetrical response. So the US government has acquired a powerful ally and that ally has now become a force also in American internal politics; powerful, well-informed and full of political savvy. We are witnessing the working out of all that in the preventative war which Israel, with American backing, has been waging in the Middle East and which can only end one way. 
