middle east
{ Damian Stack 
    September 28 2018 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/sport/gaa/eastern-excellence-results-in-famous-three-in-a-row-37354826.html }
There was never much danger for East Kerry here. They were, from the off, the superior force. They were so obviously so that not even the dismissal of Paul O'Shea - possibly on course for another man of the match award at the time - gave one much reason to doubt them. Sure St Kierans would have the benefit of the (swirling) breeze into the Horan's end for the second half and the benefit of an extra man, but East Kerry were so jam-packed with quality and, by then, had such a commanding lead built up that anything other than a victory for the red and white seemed inconceivable. After O'Shea's dismissal on twenty seven minutes - for an off the ball incident picked up by the linesman on the railway side - East Kerry led by nine points. By the time the half-time break rolled around they still led by nine points. East Kerry's lead at the break could even have been more had Dan Murphy - assist from the impressive Patrick D'Arcy - not been denied for a goal. As the teams headed down the tunnel for their half-time team talks, there was very little evidence that the second half would be that much different than the first. The first five minutes of the second half tested the proposition a little, however. St Kierans, boosted by the departure of O'Shea around the middle, shot three points on the spin in as many minutes - Seán Horan, Eddie Horan and a Paul Walsh free - and seemed to have East Kerry on the back-foot. How East Kerry responded was the hallmark of true champions. Even if they were on the back foot, Aidan Cahill's men were never rattled. Their composure shone through. On thirty seven minutes Seán O'Keeffe popped up and popped over the bar to bring the lead back to seven - 0-14 to 0-7. Further points from David Dineen and Seán Doherty (following up following a Cian O'Shea effort on goal) on forty one and forty seven minutes respectively extended that lead back to nine and, from there, there was no way back for the Saints. Kierans' composure somewhat deserted them in the second half as they gave a large number of frees, denying themselves the chance to regain momentum or to generate it at all in the first place. East Kerry on the other hand kept on keeping going. A pointed free from David Dineen on forty eight minutes and a goal from Darragh Lyne on fifty one minutes pushed the lead to thirteen points. That's where it remained by the finish. Kierans tried hard to fashion a late goal, but it was an effort in vain. Even had they nabbed a late goal it would have been little more than a consolation score. The men from the East were just that much better than them. The first half told as much. After eleven minutes East Kerry were five points to one ahead. By twenty minutes they were seven clear, 0-10 to 0-3. By twenty five minutes they were nine clear, 0-12 to 0-3. There's was nothing particularly dramatic about any of it. East Kerry just stretched their legs and went through the gears. In a game that lacked drama and competitiveness, East Kerry's abundant quality made for a compelling spectacle at least. St Kierans were game and they had quality of their own, they just couldn't match what their rivals brought to the table. No shame in that. East Kerry are simply on the crest of a wave at the moment. They've got the clubs and the schools teams to dominate and dominant is what they are. Sunday's victory completed a three in-a-row for the district outfit - the first two of those under the management of Seamus Moynihan - and given the age profile of these players (the Under 17 players will be available again next year as minor in Kerry looks likely to remain Under 18) they look in good stead to compete for a fourth crown. Days like these don't come around too often, the men and women of East Kerry should rightly rejoice in what's been done. A magnificent win for a magnificent team, you can't say fairer than that. East Kerry: Marc Kelliher (Rathmore), Jamie O'Sullivan (Gneeveguilla), Anthony O'Keeffe (Fossa), Owen Fitzgerald (Gneeveguilla), Kieran O'Donoghue (0-1) (Legion), Dan Murphy (Rathmore), Seán O'Keeffe (0-1) (Gneeveguilla), Paul O'Shea (0-1) (Kilcummin), Darragh Lyne (1-1, 1f) (Legion), Patrick D'Arcy (0-3) (Glenflesk), Cian O'Shea (Fosa), Anthony Darmody (Rathmore), David Dineen (0-7, 4f) (Rathmore), Darragh Rahilly (0-1) (Rathmore), Seán Doherty (0-4, 1f) (Glenflesk) Subs: Eoghan O'Sullivan (Legion) for S Doherty, 61, Alan Dineen (Rathmore) for J O'Sullivan, 64 St Kierans: Brian Lonergan (Ballymacelligott), Seán Brosnan (Currow), Tadgh Brick (Ballymaceligott), Ryan Maguire (Castleisland Desmonds), John Walsh (Knocknagoshel), Séan Horan (0-1) (Scartaglin), Padraigh O'Connor (Scartaglin), Seán O'Connell (Cordal), Eddie Horan (0-3, 1 '45) (Scartaglin), Luka Brosnan (0-1) (Castleisland Desmonds), Shay Walsh (0-2f) (Scartaglin), Cathal Dunne (Ballymacelligott), Éamon Nolan (Cordal), Paul Walsh (0-1) (Brosna), Danny Hickey (0-1) (Castleisland Desmonds) Subs: Ethan Reidy (Castleisland Desmonds) for C Dunne, 29, David Shanahan (Castleisland Desmonds) for T Brick, 35, Daire Keane (Ballymacelligott) for E Nolan, 41, Adam O'Donoghue (Castleisland Desmonds) for D Hickey, 54, Cathal O'Donoghue (Cordal) for S O'Connell, 61 Referee: Jonathan Griffin (Glenbeigh / Glencar) The game in 60 seconds Main man St Kierans had some solid performers - Luka Brosnan was probably their best performer - but the award has to go to an East Kerry man and of all the East Kerry players Rathmore's Dan Murphy stood tallest for us. He was sensationally good. Key moment There was only ever one winner here, but if you were to pick one moment it would probably be Dan Murphy's goal-line clearance from Shay Walsh on fifteen minutes. It would have levelled the game up at that stage of the game and given St Kierans a fighting chance. Talking Point Are East Kerry too strong? Do they have too much of a pick? Should they be split in two? Should an Eoghan Ruadh side participate at minor level? Or is all of this an overreaction to a couple of good years for the district? It's quite possible, probable even, that they will soon revert to the mean and other clubs and districts will come to the fore. Kerryman 
