middle east
{ CHARLIE WESTON 
    October 10 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/theres-no-biz-like-e-biz-26134778.html }
THE Dublin operations of Oracle Corporation are now responsible for licence and other revenues in excess of $1.5bn as the city is the manufacturing and distribution centre for Oracle products to Europe, Middle East and Africa. This was stated at the presentation of awards to Irish suppliers at the company's facility in East Point Business Park. Over 95pc of supplies and services are sourced in Ireland, according to Michael O'Callaghan, who is vice president and managing director for manufacturing and logistics for Europe, Middle East and Africa. The supplies include CDs and other media, print and documentation, software assemblies and packaging materials. Mr O'Callaghan estimated that Oracle would significantly increase its spend on supplies in Ireland this year, by up to 20pc. The theme of the awards was The Internet Changes Everything and Oracle challenged Irish suppliers to reinvent their business processes to facilitate a web-based supply chain. ``Oracle has nailed its colours firmly to the concept of internet computing, both through its product set and its business processes, and we believe that it's e-business or no business,'' said Colm Greaves, director of supply line management at Oracle. Dublin-based Colorman was named Inventory Supplier of the Year and DHL was named Freight Supplier of the Year, with special awards for quality and delivery presented to Trilog.ie and IKON. Mr Greaves paid tribute to the performance of Irish suppliers and acknowledged the quality of service Oracle has received from its supplier partners in the last fiscal year. Oracle employs over 500 people in Ireland across a range of businesses, including a direct marketing division for Europe, Middle East and Africa which is located at East Point Business Park.  It also has a manufacturing centre for Europe, the Middle East and Africa located in Airways Industrial Estate in Santry, an international translation centre at East Point, a software engineering facility in Blackrock, Co Dublin and a sales and consultancy operation in Herbert St, Dublin. 
