middle east
{  
    July 20 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27363789.html }
St. Mary’s GAA South Kerry Minor Football League Round 2 in Con Keating Park Cahersiveen.St. Maryís 3-12; Filemore 4-08After starting off the brighter with chances St. Maryís failed to score first when goal chances were taken as points went a begging, but when Patrick OíSullivan had a 21m free he made no mistake to open the scoring, Sean Cournane constructed an almost carbon copy but at the other end to bring the sides level after goalkeeper Pearse Casey over carried. St. Mary’s Team & Scorers: S Horgan, C Cournane, C OíShea, M McGillicuddy, M OíShea, C OíConnell, V Moriarty (0-3), P OíDonoghue (2-6, 1-5f), B Curran, D Murphy (0-2), S Cournane (1-3). South Kerry U-12 Football League in OíDonoghue Renard. St. Maryís 3-12 Renard 2-7. South Kerry U-12 Football League in Con Keating Park Cahersiveen. St. Maryís 11-15 Filemore 6-01. After getting a fright in the first quarter of the game St. Maryís U12ís prevailed in the end to kill off the challenge of rivals Filemore for the second time in 2 days, the other victory coming on Wednesday in the minors. In a game of goals, it was Sean Sullivan that got the scoreboard working with a goal after 4 minutes to give the visitors the lead, but this was short lived when Liam Stapleton got his first of his two goals. In the next 5 minutes Gavin Moran got 1-2 while the two midfielders Megan OíConnell and Kieran OíDriscoll chipped in with a point each before Filemore added two more goals from Darren OíSullivan, Filemores main target man, and James OíShea to bring the score to 2-3 v 3-0. This was to be the last time that the two sides were close to each other on the scoreboard as William Hickey distanced the margin with two goals in the space of a minute while Denis Daly 1-2 and Gavin Moranís 0-1 brought the half time score to St. Maryís 7-5 Filemore 4-1. The second half began where the first left off when Denis Daly 2-2, William Hickey 0-1, Liam Stapleton 1-2, Jonathan Coffey 0-1, Daragh Stack 0-1 and Sean OíShea a goal and 3 punched points all supplemented the Maryís score before Darren OíSullivan salvaged a goal in the dying minutes for Filemore to leave the final score St. Maryís 11-15, 6-01. St. Mary’s Team & Scorers: M OíShea, C Keating, D Daly (3-3), S OíShea (1-3), M OíConnell (0-1), K OíDriscoll (0-1), G Moran (2-2), W Hickey (3-1), L Stapleton (2-2). Subs: D Stack (0-1), J Coffey (0-1), C Daly, R McCarthy, C OíShea, Rocky Road, C OíShea, Boherbue, F OíSullivan, M OíShea and D OíSullivan. Fixtures: 20/07 – Minors v Valentia in S. K League in Valentia @ 8:00 24/07 – Seniors v Dr. Crokes in County League in Lewis Road @ 2:30. Lotto Draw held on Sunday the 17/7/05 at Loo Bridge - Jackpot ?4, 000. Numbers: 10, 11, 20, and 22 – No Winner. ?50 Draw: Johnny Lehane, Ballyvourney – Seller Ml O’Donoghue, Ger Cronin, Gneeveguilla, Joan Murphy Baraduff, and Peg Fleming, Artigallvin. Next Lotto Draw to be held on the 31/7/05 at the Curraglass - Jackpot ?4,200. County League - Division 3: Our next fixture will be away to Valentia on the weekend of the 24/7/05. East Kerry – O Sullivan Cup: In the next round our seniors are at home to the Kilcummin B Team, and had been fixed for Tuesday the 19/7/05, but was cancelled due to the involvement of players with the East Kerry U21 panel. East Kerry – Senior Football Championship: Well done to our players in their championship outing against John Mitchels in the Fitzgerald Stadium on Saturday night the 16/7/05. This was a one sided affair with Seamus showing that he is back to his best. Glenflesk players; Ml O’Donoghue, Seamus Moynihan, Ollie Favier & Damien McCarthy. Final score 2.14 to 0.06. East Kerry – U21 Football Championship: We wish our players well who are involved with East Kerry on Tuesday the 19/7/05 where they have a home fixture. They already had a very strong win over Listowel Emmets in their first round. Playing with East Kerry are Gary O’Donoghue, Damien McCarthy & Michael O’Shea. Under 16 County League – Division 6 (b) 13 A-Side: They were at home to St Seanans on Monday the 18/7/05 where they had a comfortable win over the opposition. This was a good team performance and were much stronger in all sectors of the field. Under 15’s County Championship: Played on Friday nite the 15/7/05 at home to Dromid Pearses. This was a game which was determined by goal chances and the visitors were to avail of 2, final score 0.11 to 2.09. This was a knockout tournament and our lads will now wait for the East Kerry competition. Under 14 East Kerry: They played Kilcummin at home on Wednesday the 13/7/05 in the East Kerry Championship. It took until the 2nd half before Glenflesk got into this game, however they could not overcome a more physical Kilcummin side. Final score 3.10 to 5.10. Under 14 Hurling - County Division 3: Congratulations to Michael O’Keeffe and the Glenflesk/Rathmore selection who defeated Duagh in their league final. Representing Glenflesk were Jeremy Moynihan, Patrick O’Keeffe, Daniel Murphy, Conor O’Brien and Sean Moynihan. Under 13’s – East Kerry: Training for the U13’s will begin this Wednesday nite @ 7.30pm and this competition will begin on Sunday the 24/7/05. Football: Training is on Friday the 15/7/04 @ 6.30pm for Boy’s U 8 & Girls (all ages), and boys U 10 @ 7.30pm. Hurling: There will be no training for under age Hurling until the school term resumes. Pat Healy & Mike O’Keeffe would like to thank all players & parents for their support. Gaelic Telecom: Glenflesk GAA have now registered with Gaelic Telecom, so we can raise funds for the club while you receive savings on your home telephone bills. GAA President Sean Kelly launched this initiative on the 20/6/05. By registering with Gaelic Telecom the club will receive 15% of your monthly call charges. Register your interest with Gaelic Telecom on 1890 929 422 and help raise money for your club. Congratulations to Matthew Culloty who has won a Munster Championship medal with the Under 16 South Kerry Panel who beat Cork in Limerick on Saturday July 9th, and defeated Limerick in the final @ Askeaton on Saturday the 16th. Sympathy: The Glenflesk Ladies club wishes to offer their deepest sympathy to the family of Mrs Ann Sheehan Gneeveguilla, on their recent and tragic loss. If you have anything to add to the Glenflesk notes please contact Glenflesk PRO Mike Nash @ 064 54929 or e-mail to myknash@eircom.net. ON Saturday, July 9, the wedding took place in the O’Connell Church, Cahersiveen of Anthony, son of Eileen and the late Paddy Jack O’Sullivan of Ballyhearney and Yvonne, daughter of Bridget and John “King” O’Shea of Woodbrook, Cahersiveen. The groom’s father, the late Paddy Jack O’Sullivan was a well known Seine boat cox of various Valentia boats, while the bride’s father, John “King” O’Shea was an accomplished footballer with the Kingdom club of London and Waterville Frank Caseys. DEATH: Friday, July 15 was a beautiful day of splendid sunshine in Valentia Island, but brought with it to Islanders the sadness and shock of the sudden death of Joe Daly of Kilbeg, who died on the afternoon of that day, while in the course of his duties on the family farm. One of nature’s gentlemen and the quiet man of Valentia Island, Joe, who was a bachelor was aged 63. He worked on the of his brother Patrick and family and enjoyed a reputation among friends and neighbours of being hard working and diligent. In bygone days he spent a period in Dublin and loved to recall and talk of times past of days spent in the metropolis. Joe Daly, a man of inoffensive, quiet and unassuming demeanour was very well liked in the community of Valentia Island, particularly in the village of Knightstown, where he routinely socialised after his day’s work on the farm. His passing from us has come all too soon. May he rest in peace. Go ndéana Dia trocaire ar a anam. We offer sincere sympathy to his brother Patrick and his wife Joan, sister Mary, nieces, nephews and all other family and friends concerned. ROWING: It was a beautiful day in Waterville on Sunday as the third regatta of the South and Mid Kerry rowing season took place in the Waterville Lake with its picturesque and beautiful surrounds. Once again it was a memorable day for the Valentia rowing club, on this occasion gaining in the four oar events three first placings and three second positions. Cox Dermot Walsh in his four oar boat St Derarca achieved first place with his under 14 boys and first place also with his under 16 girls. The under 14 boys who have enjoyed first place in every race this year are Shane O’Connor (stroke), Sean O’Sullivan, John Tyler and Conor Murphy. The under 16 girls also first in every race this year are Edel O’Sullivan (stroke), Rebecca Curran, Shauna Murphy and Sinead O’Connor. The under 16 boys under Cox Walsh, who were second on this occasion are James Lynch (Stroke), Liam Wharton, Peter O’Connell and Brendan O’Sullivan. The under 18 boys who were second had the race of the day with Caherdaniel, being pipped at the post in a photo-finish which took the judges a while to deem Caherdaniel to have won the race. They are Eoin O’Connor (stroke), John O’Donoghue, John O’Leary and TJ Gilligan. The under 18 girls who took second place are Bria Murphy (stroke), Chrissie Duff, Rebecca Nolan and Elaine Murphy. The Valentia senior ladies who took fourth position under Cox Walsh are Martina Casey (stroke), Marke Walsh, Lorraine Casey and Anya Carnell. Cox Leo Houlihan in his boat, An t-Oileánach, achieved his third first place in a row with his crew of senior ladies who are Miriam Lyne (stroke), Sinead O’Connor, Martina Houlihan and Marie O’Neill. Ger Cap Murphy reliably informs us that this crew having taken first place at the recent Templenoe regatta, which eluded them at the same event last year, have now taken a clean sweep of first placings over the years at all regattas. On the Seine boat front Cox Leo Houlihan in his boat Adventurer and Dermot Walsh in the Island Dawn had a royal battle with Cox Walsh in second place and Leo finishing third. It is interesting to note that the winners Sneem broke an oar at the commencement of this race. 1, Sneem; 2, Dermot Walsh; 3, Leo Houlihan; 4, Liberator; 5, Templenoe; 6, Over-the-Water. LEINSTER FINAL: While the Waterville regatta was in progress, its native son, Mick O’Dwyer was locked in a titanic struggle at Croke Park with his team Laois in the Leinster final, losing by a point. RIPE OLD AGE: Knightstown shopkeepers Johnnie and Bennie Reidy are the owners of a cat which has reached the ripe old age of 21. Can anyone beat this. RACE NIGHT: On Friday, August 19, the Valentia GAA’s annual race night will take place in the Ring Lyne, commencing at 9pm sharp. Horses are on sale at ?15 per horse from anyone in the club. BIRTHDAY CELEBRATIONS: Congratulations to Anne O’Driscoll of the Farm in Farranreigh, who celebrated her 60th birthday party with a barbecue in company of family and friends at her home on Saturday night. She is the former Anne O’Connor of Ballyduff, who came to Valentia Island in the sixties, taking employment in the Royal Hotel and subsequently marrying David O’Driscoll of Farranreigh. A mighty time was had by all. MATCH: The Valentia Young Islanders senior footballers will compete against Glenflesk in Division 3 of the county senior football league on Saturday night next in Valentia at 8pm. Please support us. GOALPOSTS: The various mentors of underage Valentia football teams would like to thank Mossie O’Sullivan of Lower Tennis who put together a very impressive looking set of goalposts for the purpose of underage games. MUNSTER FINAL: At the recent Kerry v Cork Munster final in Pairc Ui Caoimh, Laura O’Sullivan, daughter of Mossie and Mary, Lower Tennis, featured as a player on the Kerry Primary School girls team versus Cork on display to the crowd at half time. Paddy Curran, who played so well for the Kerry minors on that day is the son of Larry Curran. Larry gave a great display for Waterville in their South Kerry championship victory over Valentia in 1976. DRIVING LESSONS: Good luck to Nono O’Donoghue of Chapeltown (Caol) as she takes driving lessons on the highways and byways of Valentia Island. TRADITION: Time was when half a pig’s head, crubeens, salt mackerel and carrageen moss were part of the traditional diet of Irish people. In keeping with this tradition Seanie O’Sullivan, proprietor of the Ring Lyne Guesthouse will on Saturday night at 8pm provide a traditional dinner. The starter will be of Salt Mackerel, with the main course of Crubeens and Half Head and a dessert of Carrageen Moss. All are welcome free of charge. GAA LOTTO: Numbers drawn were 1, 17, 23. There was no winner. Prizewinners: ?30 each — Maurice O’Sullivan, Lower Tennis; Megan Sheehan, Geokaun View; Cathy Halpin, Wicklow. Next week’s jackpot will be ?1,050. The next team is Team 6. DEATH: The community was stunned by the death of Anne Sheehan, Lissyconnor, who died tragically two weeks ago in a road accident. The funeral at the week end was one of the largest seen in the area for a long time. Large crowds from far and near attended both the removal from her residence to the Church on Saturday evening, and also the funeral mass in St Joseph’s Church, Rathmore on Sunday and afterwards, Anne was laid to rest in the adjoining Cemetery. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Donie and all the Sheehan and McDonald families at this very sad time, and we also wish Donie, Suzanne, and Niamh a speedy recovery from their injuries. May she rest in peace. LOTTO: Jackpot ?2,600. Nos drawn, July 17, 4, 7, 9, 23. No winner. Lucky dip ?40 each, Pat Hickey c/o Cadburys, Mike O’Mahony, East End, Rathmore, Shane Breen, Gortnaprocess, Philip Dennehy, Mohovaldaly, Kathleen Hurley, Lyrecorrin. Entered for week end away, Tim and Dan Collins, Gneeveguilla Village. Jackpot next week ?2,800. CO LEAGUE RD 9: Ballymac v Gneeveguilla on Sunday, July 24 at 2.30pm in Ballymac. U16 Co league Rd 4. Beale 3-7, Gneeveguilla 3-6. Rd 5 fixture, Gneeveguilla v Knocknagoshel on Monday, July 25 in G’guilla at 7.30pm. U14: Gneeveguilla u14s defeated by Firies on Sunday evening. KERRY S U16: Congrats to Patrick Riordan, who won a Munster u16 medal with Kerry South at the week end. Patrick had a great game, playing in goal, and is a player with a bright future ahead. GAELIC TELECOM: Anyone interested in joining please contact Bill Riordan, Secretary 0872069459. MASTERGEEHA FC: There was no winner of this week's Lotto. The numbers drawn were 4, 10, 16, 21. Consolation prizes went to the following: ?80, Tim McCarthy, Toremore, Kilcummin; ?40 each — Mark Breen, Buddihans, Kilcummin; Danny O'Sullivan, Knockataggle, Kilcummin; Eileen Crowley, Rathanane, Kilcummin; Mike Lenihan, Inchicullane. Kilcummin Jackpot next week ?3,000. COMHALTAS: The town of Macroom came alive to the sound of music, song and dance in brilliant sunshine as it hosted the Munster Fleadh Cheoil last weekend. Kilcummin were well represented and their trip over the County bounds was well rewarded as they achieved five Munster Titles, four in Set Dancing and one in Singing. In the U12 English Singing (fir) Niall Crowley turned in a great performance and secured 1st place where he will now go forward to represent Kilcummin at the All Ireland Fleadh in Letterkenny in August and we wish him the best of luck in his quest for All Ireland honours. In the Set Dancing competition Kilcummin and sets from Clare fought a great battle over the two days and shared the spoils with four wins each. The results were U14 Mixed - 1st. Chris Foley, Marie Sheehan, Gavin O'Leary, Noreen O'Sullivan, TJ Moriarty, Ciara Nagle, Niall Crowley and Aoife O'Leary. Trainer Adrian Moriarty. U14 Ladies - 1st Ciara Nagle, Marie Sheahan, Elaine Spillane, Diane Healy, Aoife Murphy, Laura O'Shea, Noreen O'Sullivan and Aoife O'Leary. Trainers Ruth Murphy and Margaret O'Sullivan. U17 Mixed - 1st, Ruaidhri O'Connor, Elaine McSweeney, Gavin O'Leary, Amanda O'Leary, T.J. Moriarty, Marie McSweeney, Conor Moriarty, Marguerite O'Connor. Trainer Tony O'Connor. Senior Ladies - 1st Therese Buckley, Helen Buckley, Elaine McSweeney, Ruth Murphy, Margaret O'Sullivan, Tara O'Connor, Patricia Fleming and Carmel Lenihan. Trainer Philip O'Connor. Senior Mixed - 2nd Adrian Moriarty, Patricia Fleming, Philip O'Connor, Margaret O'Sullivan, Alan Cronin, Ruth Murphy, Timmy Lane and Helen Buckley. All five sets will go forward to dance in the All Ireland Final in Castlewellan, Co. Down next year. Our thanks to Conor Moriarty and Colm Guilfoyle who provided the music for all the sets. While success did not come to all our participants, nevertheless they all performed to the best of their ability and they can feel very proud of their achievements. The branch would like to thank each and everyone of them for their time and dedication and wish them every success in the future. A special word of thanks to all parents for their continued support to the branch GAA: Kilcummin 1-15, West Kerry 2-12. Kilcummin and West Kerry will have to meet again after playing out an exciting draw in the AIB Senior Football Championship Round Three on Sunday last in Kilcummin. This was a game of two halves as West Kerry dominated the first half. Kilcummin kicked the opening point in the second minute from a DJ Fleming free for a foul on Michael McCarthy. West Kerry struck for a goal and a point in the sixth minute. Kilcummin replied with a Michael O'Connor point. West Kerry added a point in the ninth minute. A minute later Kilcummin could have been level but Eamon O'Donoghue's penalty shot was well saved by the West Kerry keeper. West Kerry extended their lead with two points in the 12th and 14th minutes. Both sides exchanged two points with Kilcummin's points being scored by DJ Fleming and an excellent struck point from Ronan O'Connor. In the 25th minute Kilcummin conceded a second goal. Kilcummin kicked the final point of the first half from Paul O'Donoghue. Half time score Kilcummin 0-5 West Kerry 2-6. Kilcummin made some positional changes at half time introducing Kevin Gorman and Donald Dwyer for the second half. Kilcummin emerged a different team after the break and took complete control of this game in the third quarter. Kilcummin had the ball in the West Kerry net in the second minute, Michael McCarthy set up Sean Brendan Doherty who crashed the ball to the net. West Kerry replied with a point in the fourth minute. Kilcummin kicked eight unanswered points in the next twelve minutes. Eamon O'Donoghue converted a free in the fifth minute and two points from attacking wing-back Ronan O'Connor left two points between the sides. Kilcummin were level in the tenth minute with points from Paul O'Donoghue and D.J. Fleming. Kilcummin raced into a three-point lead with points from DJ Fleming (2) and Donald Dwyer. In the 19th minute West Kerry replied with a point. Donald Dwyer put three points between the sides in the 22nd minute. West Kerry fought back with two points in the 24th and 26th minutes to leave a point between the sides. A minute later Colm Lenihan came up field to kick an important point for Kilcummin. In an exciting last two minutes West Kerry landed two points to leave the sides all square at the final whistle. Final score Kilcummin 1-15, West Kerry 2-12. Team: Cha Doherty, Tommy Cooper, Colm Lenihan (0-1), Killian Murphy, Tommy Brosnan, Ronan O'Connor (0-3), Kevin Bruton, Eamon O'Donoghue (0-1), Shane McSweeney, Michael McCarthy, Kieran O'Donoghue, Michael O'Connor (0-1), Sean Doherty (1-0), Paul O'Donoghue (0-2) and DJ Fleming (0-5). Subs. Kevin Gorman, Donald Dwyer (0-2), Sean Lenihan and Padraig Kelly. MINOR: The Kilcummin Minor team were well beaten by Currow Thursday night in Currow. Kilcummin were without some regulars. Kilcummin trailed 1-6 to 0-2 at half time. Currow took over in the second half and they ran out easy winners. Team: Sean Curtin, Conor Murphy, Kieran Doherty, Michael Horan, Anthony O'Sullivan, Eric O'Connor, Damian Doolan, Kevin McSweeney, John C Brosnan (0-1), David Brosnan (1-2), Ritchie O'Connor and Edmund O'Sullivan. Subs: Sean Healy and Eoin Guilfoyle. The Kilcummin / Rathmore / Kenmare minor combination were beaten by St Brendan’s on Tuesday night in the County Minor Championship First Round. The following Kilcummin players were involved. Kieran Doherty, John O'Keeffe, Kevin McSweeney, Ian O'Leary, John C. Brosnan, Sean Brosnan, Ritchie O'Connor, Eric O'Connor and Damian Doolan, this side were due to play St Kieran’s on Tuesday night in the losers round. FIXTURES. The Kilcummin senior team are playing Annascaul on this Sunday at 1 o'clock in Kilcummin in the Credit Union County League Division One. The Kilcummin minor team will play Legion on this Thursday night, July 21 at 7.30pm in Dirreen in the East Kerry Minor League Division One. GAELIC TELECOM. Kilcummin GAA Club have decided to endorse Gaelic Telecom as a means of raising funds for the club. If you are contacted by Gaelic Telecom and you decide to change to Gaelic Telecom it will help in the running of your club. If you have any further queries contact a club officer. LOTTO: The Kilcummin GAA Lotto of ?4,200 was not won. The numbers drawn were 1, 10, 16 and 19. The following won consolation prizes — ?100, Michael Brosnan, Milleen, Kilcummin; ?60 each — , Edmund McSweeney, Toremore, Kilcummin; Tadhg Moynihan, Milleen, Kilcummin; ?30 each — Liam Fitzgerald, Knockeenalicka, Kilcummin; Mary O'Donoghue, Lacca Kilcummin. The next draw will take place on Sunday, July 31. The jackpot will be ?4,400. CEMETERY MASSES: Aghadoe, Monday, July 25, 8pm; Old Kilcummin, Wednesday, August 3, 8pm. CHURCH RENOVATION FUND: The function organised by Birmingham GAA for Saturday, September 17 will be a Memorial Tribute to the late Michael "Cut" O'Sullivan late of High Street, Killarney, who died last year. As Michael was a great fan and lifelong supporter of Kerry Football, the "Sheamus Moynihan Perpetual Trophy" - called after his great friend will be presented by Eddie "Tatler" O'Sullivan to Birmingham GAA Board at the dance. The venue in St Dunstan's in King's Heath Birmingham. Music will be by Two's Company and Adm ?4. It is hoped that some representatives will attend as we did for the London Galtymore Fundraiser. Kindly inform and alert all our East Kerry exiles in the English Midlands - Coventry, Rugby and Birmingham areas. "Ar scath a cheile maireann Pobal". NB: You might like to check Aer Lingus advance seat sale ?19 each way including taxes and charges. Book online by July 19th www.aerlingus.com for travel between Sept. 1st Nov. 30th on Monday-Thursday only. DVD and Video of our Lady of Lourdes Church Rededication are now on sale at ?20 from Kilcummin PO, Music Centre, New Street, Killarney or from Fr Looney. It is a wonderful memento and includes the Stations of the Cross particularly suitable for all our housebound sick. Visitors from USA are reminded that American standard copies can be ordered at the same price. CPR FOR FAMILY AND FRIENDS: The HSE Ambulance Service will run a free course in CPR on the 23rd and 24th July at The Old Monastery, Port Road. There will be two sessions each day starting at 8.45 a.m. and 1.45p.m. sharp with 60 places on each session. To book on this free course ring 064-38550 or 064-38553 Monday to Friday 10am. -- 12 noon and 2pm. - 4pm. YOUTH CLUB: It's that time of year again, when we appeal for volunteers to help with the running of the Youth Club for Sept. 2005. If you have an interest in youth work or would like to gain experience in youth activities this would be an opportunity to become involved. A training course for volunteers will be available, run by KDYS Killarney. Please contact The Rural Development Office on 064 -43357 or Tereasa Kerins 064 - 34113. WEDDING: Congratulations to Pat Leahy of Dunmaniheen and Katya Gauci of Toronto, Canada, who got married recently in sunny Mexico. Pat is a former player of Laune Rangers. He now resides in Toronto and is a key player with St Michaels GAA Club in Toronto, both his parents Frank and Ester and his four brothers, Aidan, Kieran, Colm and Marcus travelled to Mexico for the special day, the ceremony took place in the resort of Puerto Vallanta, a beautiful place overlooking the Pacific Ocean. Many blessings on you both and best wishes from the Laune Rangers-Killorglin. GREETINGS: To Susan and Alan, of Caragh lake, from their friend Geraldine Quinn, New Inn, Ballinasloe, Co Galway, whom I met on the River Danube in Budapest only last week. A place to be seen, to be believed. NOTICE: Vacancies exist in Killorglin area for participants in the Rural Social Scheme. Ring Rosemarie or Mary for details 0669761615. KILLORGLIN CREDIT UNION CYCLING CLUB The Junior riders have had a busy schedule for the past few weeks, Ras Connachata was on first weekend in July and Eoin Concannon and Jeremiah O'Sullivan took part. A record entry of 115 riders lined out for the race. First stage was held in Cong and won by Eugene Moriarty, 2nd stage was by Paul Healion but Moriarty still held the yellow jersey, this was a 68 mile road race which started and finished in Cong and then the third stage was an afternoon 7 mile time trial which was won by Tommy Evans and gave Evans the overall lead, Stage 4 was from Cong to Ballintubber and back to Cong and was won by Timmy Barry. However Tommy Evans held onto his overall lead. finishing 3 secs ahead of Paul Healion and Eugene Moriarty finsihed a further sec down to take 3rd place. The Junior Tour took place in Connaught also last week. The Killorglin Club was represented by Daniel Clifford, Jeremiah O'Sullivan and Liam Dowd. 62 riders started and had glorious weather for the week. in The 1st Stage was a 2.8 Time Trial which took place in Castlebar, this was won by Martin Munroe who was a member of the Irish Team with a time of 6min 12 secs. Jeremiah O'Sullivan finished in 26th place, Liam Dowd in 28th and Daniel Clifford in 56th place. Stage 2 was a 67.2 mile road race from Killala to Ballina. Daniel Clifford had a great race here finishing 3rd in the bunch sprint and Jeremiah finished 10th in the Sprint. Maurice o'Brien of Kanturk was the winner. Stage 3 was a 54.8mile race in Westport. Daniel Clifford finished 8th and Jeremiah and Liam Dowd finished in the bunch. Stage 4 was a 70 mile race from Castlebar to Achill, our 3 riders came home in the main bunch. During this stage Jeremiah won the KOH climb and was 4th on the Category 1 climb. Stage 5 was in the Castlebar area with Liam Dowd finishing the best of the Killorglin team with Daniel and Jeremiah coming in 1 min later. Stage 6 was a 54.2 mile race from Partry to Castlebar, This race was won by the South African Neal Corbett just ahead of Daniel Clifford and Jermiah O'Sullivan of Killorglin Credit Union CC won yesterday's stage from Party to Castlebar. Such was closeness of the sprint that the Killorglin guys, requested a look at the photo finish picture, which proved that indeed it was close and unfortunately not in their favour. A great week was had by all. Well done to the riders and their mentors for all their efforts. The Killorglin Riders finished 8th in the Team Prize. Jeremiah finished 5th in the Mountain stages and was 3rd in the Points. The underage riders were at the Munster Championships at the weekend. They had Time Trials, a Hill Climb and a Road Race. Results: Time Trial. U11. 1st Ronan Murphy, 2nd Jason Roche, 3rd Darren O'Sullivan all Killorglin CC. U12. 1st Owen McCarthy Fermoy, 2nd David O'Connor Killorglin, 3rd Ian Redmond. U13. 1st Cian Corcoran, 2nd Shane Sullivan, 3rd Donal Rice all Killorglin CC. U14. 1st Sean Doona Killorglin CC, Brendan Cassidy Killarney, Eamon O'Neill Fermoy. U15. 1st Sam Bennet Kanturk, Adrian O'Connor Killorglin. U16. 1st Denis Dunworth Killorglin, Jeff Hanrahan Clonmel, John Duggan Banteer. Results Hill Climb. U11. 1st Jason Roche, 2nd Ronan Murphy, 3rd Darren O'Sullivan all Killorglin CC. U12. 1st David O'Connor and 2nd Dermot O'Connor all Killorglin CC. U13. 1st Shane O'Sullivan, 2nd Donal Rice, 3rd Cian Corcoran all Killorglin CC. U14. 1st Sean Doona, 2nd Brendan Cassidy Killarney 3rd Cian Corcoran Killorglin. U15. 1st Sam Bennet Kanturk, 2nd Eoin Leahy Kanturk, Adrian O'Connor Killorglin. Results Road Race. U11. 1st Ronan Murphy, 2nd Jason Roche, 3rd Darren O'Sullivan all Killorglin CC. U12. 2nd David O'Connor. U13. 1st Shane O'Sullivan, 2nd Cian Corcoran, 3rd Donal Rice all Killorglin CC. U14. 1st Sean Doona, 2nd Brendan Cassidy Killarney. U15. 3rd Adrian O'Connor Killorglin U16. 1st Jeff Hanrahan, John Duggan and Denis Dunworth in 3rd place. Question Is it true that you can now claim from the Department of Social and Family Affairs for dental treatment carried out in another EU country? Answer Yes, it is now possible to claim for dental treatment obtained in other EU countries under the Department's Treatment Benefit Scheme, providing you qualify for the scheme. To qualify for the scheme you must satisfy certain Pay Related Social Insurance (PRSI) contribution conditions which vary depending on your age. You are also eligible if you are the dependent spouse of an insured person or a dependent widow or widower whose spouse was qualified at time of death. If you satisfy the PRSI conditions when you reach age 60 you will remain qualified for life. Under the scheme you can qualify for Dental, Optical and Aural Benefits whereby the Department pays some of the costs of various treatments, such as dental fillings and extractions, eye examinations, glasses, contact lenses and hearing aids. You can now claim these benefits if your treatment, spectacles, etc., were obtained in another EU country. Before going abroad you should contact the Department's Treatment Benefit Section, Tel: LoCall 1890 400 400 (ext 4480) for an application form and details of how much the Department pays for the various treatments. When abroad you pay the full amount for the treatment, but you should ask the dentist, optician or audiologist to complete the application form. To claim the benefit when you return to Ireland, send the application form to the Treatment Benefit Section, Department of Social and Family Affairs, St. Oliver Plunkett Road, Letterkenny, Co. Donegal. Further information is available from the Citizens Information Centre below. Further information is available from the Citizens Information Centre below. Killarney - 064) 32297 Email: killarney.cic@comhairle.ie Tralee - 066) 7123655 Email: tralee.cic@comhairle.ie Caherciveen - 066) 947 3515 Email: caherciveen.cic@comhairle.ie Castleisland - 066) 714 3992 Email: castleisland.cic@comhairle.ie Dingle 066) 9152280 Email: dingle.cic@comhairle.ie Kenmare - 064) 41000 Email: kenmare.cic@comhairle.ie Killorglin - 066) 979 0856 Email: killorglin.cic@comhairle.ie Listowel - 068) 22937 Email: listowel.cic@comhairle.ie MINORS: Laune Rangers 2-8, Feale Rangers 2-7. Our minors had a one pt win against a game Feale Ranger sin a very hard fought but fair game in Killorglin last Tuesday evening. We started well and with L Dunlea, S O’Riordan and F Riordan wining a lot of ball in the middle of the field, we went in leading 1-4 to 0-3 at half time, the goal being scored by Gary Flynn. In the 2nd half, Feale Rangers clawed themselves back into the game, with two opportunist goals. This really put it up to our boys, especially when Flynn was unlucky to see a penalty strike the post and go wide. Just before the end, Shane Crowley struck for a good goal, but it was a one pt game entering injury time. Our backs were to the wall, at this stage, but we held on with our defence playing really well, when it was needed. Training in Cloon on Friday at 8pm. SENIOR: On Saturday last as expected our seniors had a hard fought battle against Kenmare. Things looked bleak at half time, as we trailed by 4 pts, 1-4 to 0-3. The gap widened to 5 pts at the start of the 2nd half. Then Rangers showed what a great c’ship team they are, as they kept Kenmare scoreless for the remainder of the game, and scored 6 unanswered pts themselves, to win by a single point 1-5 to 0-9. Report in sports section. WELL DONE: To Sinead Joy of Lonart, daughter of Patsy and Mary, who has written a fantastic book, entitled The IRA in Kerry, 1916-1921. SYMPATHY: Is extended to the families of Sean Corkery, Reen, and Dan Aherne, Mt View, who died recently. FIXTURES: Rd 1 of Co league takes place this week end. Senior team are away to Listowel Emmets and B team are at home to Glenbeigh/Glencar. Please check notice board at CYMS for times and dates. LOTTO: Jackpot ?6,800. Numbers were 2, 11, 12, 24. There was one winner, Anne O’Neill, 69 Hawthorn Ave, Killarney. It was a very lucky trip to the J P O’Sullivan Park, for this great Crokes family. Her husband, Harry O’Neill helped Dr Crokes to a fine victory over M/Castlemaine and we wish Anne the best of luck with her win. U8 U10: On Saturday, we travelled to Tralee to play Kerins O’Rahillys. In all we played four games performing very successfully in all games. Next Sunday is the final morning until the middle of August. Summer camp in the J P O’Sullivan Park on Monday, July 25. Registration can be paid on the morning. U14: We begin our Tralee District campaign, with a home game on Wednesday night, July 20, against Kerins O’Rahillys. We are away to Listowel on July 27. U15: We received a walkover from Beaufort last Friday night. We now play Dingle in the semi final this Friday, July 22 at the J P O’Sullivan Park at 6.30. U12S: Pride of place this week must go to the B team, who recorded back to back victories, against Glenbeigh and Keel in the Mid Kerry C competition. Their next games are away to Listry on Wednesday and away to Milltown on Sunday. The A team had one game this week, and beat Keel after a great battle. They are at home to Milltown and at home to Beaufort in their next two games. THE winner of Listry Golf Society’s Captain’s prize for 2005 is Kevin O'Shea with 44 points. Category 1:1, Mike Mannix; 2, Mike Foley; 3, Pat Quirke; 4, Shane O'Sullivan; 5, Robert Gallagher; 6, Tom Murphy; 7, Philip O'Neill. Category 2: 1, Danny Wrenn; 2, David Aherne; 3, Kathleen Wrenn; 4, Brendan Courtney; 5, Michael O'Sullivan; 6, Anthony Clifford; 7, Niall Lynch. Non Prize Winners, Adrian O'Sullivan, Declan Byrne. Front Nine: Colman O'Shea, Tom Neville. Back Nine: Pat Sugrue, Denis O'Shea. Par 3 Score: John Joe Rice, 13pts. Long Drive: Tom Sugrue. Nearest Pin: Tom Murphy. Past Captain: Dermot Foley. Ladies Prize: Emma Foley. Guest Prize: 1, Jerome Regan; 2, Simon Axinworthy; 3 , Paraic Doyle. GAA: The seniors play Ballyduff on Friday next at Home. U-16's were beaten by Templenoe / Tousist / Kilgarvan on Monday. U-15's play St Pat's in Cromane on Wednesday, July 20 at 7pm. U-12's had a great win against Beaufort on Sunday. Final score Cromane / Listry 7-14 Beaufort 1-11. U-8 & 10: Training on Friday evening from 7 to 8pm. GET WELL: We would like to wish Thomas Doona a speedy recovery. It’s great to hear he is home from Hospital. Hope to see him around the cross soon. LOTTO: Winning numbers 13, 20, 22, 23. No Jackpot Winner. Consolation Prize Winners: ?50 each — Damian, Michele and Joseph Clifford; John Leahy, Ballydesmond; Cianna Foley, Shanakill West: ?20 each — Brendan Conway, Faha; Mark Keane, Culleeneymore; Paudie Horan, Glenflesk; Nora Lyne, Cleeney; Marian O'Shea, Lissivane East. Jackpot next week, July 24 is ?2,150. Please note all proceeds from the Lotto on July 31 is towards the setting up of the Child Care Centre. Your support would be greatly appreciated. CO C’SHIP: M/Castlemaine failed in their attempt to reach the quarter finals of the Co c’ship when they were defeated by Dr Crokes in Killorglin on Sunday evening last. Full time score Dr Crokes 5-11, M/Castlemaine 1-12. Full report in sports section. CO LEAGUE: M/Castlemaine return to action this weekend, when they take on Castleisland Desmonds in Castleisland on Saturday at 8pm. LOTTO: The M/Castlemaine lotto draw, will take place in O’Sheas Bar, Milltown next Sunday night, July 24. The jackpot will be ?3.600. STOCK JUDGING: Congrats to William Horgan, from Firies Club, who won the All Ireland final u23s of the stock judging held recently. Congrats also to Niall Groves, who represented Kerry in the senior section. Many thanks to Kerry Friesian Breeders for holding the Co final, in association with their open evening on Brendan Cremins farm, Lisselton. Thanks to J P O’Carroll who organised everything. Young farmer of the future competition is happening soon. Anyone interested in taking part, should contact J P O’Carroll, before July 21. WATER SAFETY DATES LOCALLY: 25th July in Portmagee (Swim) & Kells (Safety); 1st August ñ Portmagee (Safety) & Valentia (Swim); 8th August ñ Valentia (Safety); 15th August ñ Derrynane (Swim); 22nd August ñ Ballinskelligs (Swim). SKELLIG RANGERS G.A.A.: The Lotto: Weekly results of the Skellig Rangers Lotto, week 17/07/05. Lotto Jackpot was ?125. The numbers drawn were: 5, 7 & 17. There was no outright winner and the winners of the consolation prizes were: ?30 John Timmy OSullivan, Ardcost, Portmagee, ?20 Mike Griffin, The Glen and ?20 Michael O’Driscoll, Gortreagh, Portmagee. The Lotto Jackpot for next week 24th July will be ?150. LOTTO ROTA: Rota for Sunday 24th July 2005: Stephen OíSullivan, Michael Brennan, Sean Courtney and Wayne O’Sullivan. NEWS FROM THE SKELLIG RANGERS PRO: RESULTS: U12ís: Skellig Ranger/Valentia combination had two good victories recently. Last week they defeated Dr. Crokes 3-7 to 2-6 while on Sunday evening last they defeated Ballymac 3-9 to 2-5. Minors: Skellig Rangers defeated Renard on Wednesday eve last by the scoreline of 2-11 to 2-09. Gary OíDriscoll and Man of The Match Florence Donnelly got the 2 goals. U15s County League: Skellig Rangers defeated Cordal last weekend by 7 points. FIXTURES: County League Div 2 in Dromid v Skellig Rangers on Sunday 24th July at 2.30 p.m. in Dromid. Minor South Kerry League: Skellig Rangers v Foilmore on this evening Wednesday 20th July at 8.00 p.m. in Portmagee. VIDEO: Anyone interested in purchasing the Video of the recent South Kerry League Final between Skellig Rangers and Renard can do so by contacting Christy Reardon on 087-9226284. LOTTO: There was no winner of last weeks jackpot. The nos drawn were 16, 17, 18, 22. Consolation prize winners were 5 x ?40, Dermie Desmond, Stagmount (yearly), Joan O’Mahony, c/o Peteros, Adrian Tynan, Portlaoise, Siobhan Fleming, Upper Gneeveguilla, Catherine Maymhal, Butler, Bog Rd. This weeks jackpot is ?4,600, tickets sponsored by Frank Brosnan, Bus Hire and draw takes place in the Star Bar on Sunday night. CLUB MEETING: The monthly meeting will be held in the Club rooms, Rathbeg this Thursday night at 9pm. All members are requested to attend. S KERRY U16S: Congratulations to Eoin Lawlor and Brian O’Leary, who were members of the S Kerry u16s that defeated Limerick on Saturday last in the Munster final. CO SENIOR C’SHIP: Well done to our senior team, that defeated St Kierans in the Co senior c’ship in Fitzgerald Stadium, This was a great team performance the final score Rathmore 2-10, St Kierans 1-6. Rathmore have now qualified for the quarter finals. Full match report in sports section. The quarter final draw takes place to night, Wednesday on Radio Kerry live between 9 and 10pm. CO SENIOR LEAGUE: Rathmore are away to Currow on Saturday night in the Co league at 8pm. MINORS: Rathmore play Spa in Rathbeg this Thursday night at 7.30pm in the E Kerry minor league. The minors received two walk overs last week from Dr Crokes in E Kerry, and Glenbeigh/Glencar in the Co. CO JUNIOR LEAGUE FINAL: The Div 1 Co junior league final takes place on Sunday next. Rathmore play An Gaeltacht, check locally for time and venue. WEDDING: Congratulations to Mike McCarthy, Mileenbawn, and Maura G O’Leary, Leam, who were married on Saturday last, wishing them all the best for the future. CLUB SPONSOR: Congrats to Reens Garage, on the official opening of new garage and showrooms last week end. Wishing them all the best for the future. Reens Garage are main sponsors to Rathmore senior team. BEREAVEMENTS: The Club extend their deepest sympathy to the wife and family of the late John Ryan, Ballycullane, to the Breen family, Scrahangullane on the death of Ann, also to the O’Donoghue family, Cahirbarnagh on the death of Abina. May they rest in peace. WATERVILLE Lake was the venue for the regatta on Sunday last. Conditions were ideal for racing with good sunshine and a very light breeze. U14 boys started of the days racing and rowed a very good race to take the bronze medal in a very tight finish. This crew also wont he bronze medal the previous week in Templenoe regatta. u16 ladies crew were next to race, and put in a brilliant performance this crew were fighting it out for silver but in the end had to settle for bronze. U16 boys finished in 4th place, u18 ladies rowed very well to take the bronze. Boys were next to race this was the best race of the day, finishing in 4th place. Senior men were last to race. This was a good quality race, with 3 boats oar and oar at the turning, but on the return journey our crew rowed well to take the gold medal. It was a nice days rowing with keenly fought races all day. Next regatta, Sunday, July 24, Callinafercy regatta at Ballykissane Pier. Draw for buoys 4pm. SNEEM Family Festival wish to announce that due to circumstances beyond our control the Bungee Jump will have to be postponed on Sunday, August 14. All other events will go ahead as scheduled and the Committee wish to apologise for any inconvenience caused. We wish you all a great festival. 100th BIRTHDAY CELEBRATIONS: Hanora O'Leary and Family wish to offer their sincere thanks to Fr Murphy, Sneem Development Association, Sneem Welfare Group, neighbours and friends worldwide for their good wishes and kind generosity and to all who contributed to make this an unforgettable and joyous occasion. SNEEM WELFARE: The Annual collection on behalf of Sneem Welfare Organisation will take place this weekend, July 23 / 24 at all Masses. We thank all those who have supported us generously in the past and we look forward to your continued support in the future. GAA LOTTO: Jackpot ?3,750. Numbers drawn were 4, 5, 7, 23. There was no winner. Consolation prizes: Padraic Burns-So, Square; Patrick Casey, Loughane; Tim Murphy, Moularostig; Tim Murphy, Moularostig. Next Draw Saturday 23/7/05- ?3,900 jackpot. PRIDE OF PLACE COMPETITION: The 13th was our lucky day because the judges of the Pride of Place 2005 competition were listening to the accomplishments of fourteen voluntary and community groups active in Sneem. Fortunately the weather was on best behaviour, and they saw for themselves what a vibrant, dynamic community Sneem is. Part of the presentation included a mini-documentary about our vision of Sneem. Anyone interested in acquiring the documentary can buy the DVD entitled "Celebrating Sneem - Pride of Place" from DJ O'Sullivan, Christian's or Sneem House at a cost of ?11 each. Sincere thanks to all those who gave of their time and expertise." Quiz Waterville Early Years Centre will hold a Table Quiz in the Lobster Bar this Friday night, July 22nd at 9.30pm. Everybody Welcome. Country Market takes place every Wednesday between 11am and 2pm at Waterville Inn. Everybody welcome. Exhibition of Paintings- There will be an exhibition of paintings by local artist. Georgina Keen in Tig Rosie, Dun Geagan, Ballinskelligs on Friday next 22nd July at 8.00pm. Proceeds from the exhibition will go to the Day Care Centre being built in Dun Geagan. The exhibtion will be followed by Irish Music and Dancing. 
