middle east
{ John Fallon 
    October 14 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/goodman-accused-of-commercial-terrorism-26256819.html }
Liam Collins on allegations of a double-cross and a secret deal in the beef trade ON July 25 this year, the High Court in Dublin set a strict timetable for what promises to be a sensational court case involving beef magnate Larry Goodman, 80-year-old Jordanian businessman Zakaria Taher and Taher's former partner, Pascal Phelan. In a separate set of proceedings being pursued by Taher against Larry Goodman in the UK, an affidavit sworn by Taher was opened in a London court last week. The judge dismissed these proceedings as ``an abuse of process'' and awarded costs against Mr Taher. Some of the matters raised are already the subject of proceedings before the Irish courts. During the course of the London proceedings, Taher described in his own words how he double-crossed his one-time partner in Master Meat Packers, Pascal Phelan, and how, he claims, Larry Goodman engineered the complete takeover of a competitor through a secret Liechtenstein company called Tarsos Anstalt. Mr Goodman says he ``totally rejects'' the matters raised by Taher.  The deal When Larry Goodman's private jet touched down in Geneva on April 14, 1987, a fleet of Mercedes cars was waiting to take the occupants to their plush hotel in the city's solid-gold financial district. Goodman was tense; the Irish beef baron was in the throes of a deal that would effectively give him control of the Irish beef industry. For Goodman, the deal and the secrecy that surrounded it were paramount. With him were his personal solicitor, David Beatty, and his chief executive, Brian Britton. The other occupants of the Lear jet were multi-millionaire beef magnate Zakaria Taher and his son, Naser, a man about town in Dublin. But this was not a pleasure trip. Goodman was trying to find a way to buy out Zakaria Taher's 50 per cent stake in Pascal Phelan's Master Meat Packers (MMP) company in Ireland. If he could pull off the deal it would give him effective control of the company, because the partnership agreement between Taher and Phelan meant that neither one could do anything without the other. The problem was that Zakaria Taher was double-crossing Phelan and he wanted £15m for the stake for which he had paid £1.5m the previous year. It was a tidy profit for a dirty deed. The five men met the following morning in the basement of the Mebco Bank in Geneva. The president of the bank, Haem Chalabi, joined them, as did Ernest Aeschbacher, whose job it was to draw up the necessary legal documents to transfer Taher's stake in MMP from one secret Liechtenstein company (Anstalt) which he controlled, to another which would be under the control of the Louth businessman, Larry Goodman, who had left school at the age of 15 and was now one of Ireland's richest and most powerful men. As they haggled over the price and pored over complex legal documents, the group of millionaires didn't even break for lunch. But more important even than money was Goodman's insistence on secrecy. ``I was unhappy with the situation, I felt that Mr Goodman not only wanted to conceal his identity in the purchase but he now further required my services to assist him with such camouflage,'' says Taher, now 80 and extremely ill. ``I stated to Mr Goodman that I was not prepared to accede to such a scheme. An impasse was then reached. I recall clearly that Mr Goodman placed the bank draft for US $9.75m in the centre of the table ... so as to entice me further accept the proposed variation to our original agreement reached in London.'' At the end of an exhausting day, Taher agreed to break his partnership agreements with Pascal Phelan and to sell his stake to Goodman. The compromise brokered by the Swiss banker, Mr Chalabi, was that Goodman would give Taher personal indemnities against any legal action Pascal Phelan might take against him. Zakaria Taher says that as part of the deal he handed over power of attorney to his solicitors, Donal Roche and David Prentice of the Dublin firm of Matheson Ormsby Prentice. Last week MOP denied that any such arrangement was entered by them with Taher. ``After finalising and signing all the documents, Mr Goodman handed me the bank draft for US $9.75m and we shook hands to conclude the deal, and I and Naser congratulated him on this new purchase.''  The Haj ``In 1996 I was fortunate enough to go to the pilgrimage in Mecca [the Haj]. According to my religion, it is essential and vital for me to attempt to rectify my previous wrongdoings and to clear my conscience in my final years.'' So says Zakaria Taher, who was born in Palestine in 1921 and has for years been one of the most powerful men in the international meat trade. ``I have been a diabetic for over 30 years. In August and September of this year, I underwent a number of medical examinations by medical consultants, who informed me that my life is in grave danger and is nearing its end. I have previously allowed this matter to drift on the basis that Mr Goodman would resolve the situation, which was of his own making and for which he has indemnified me.'' The ``situation'' began for Taher in 1985 when the young Irish businessman Pascal Phelan went looking for markets in the Middle East. Phelan had worked for Larry Goodman before setting up on his own and his company, Master Meat Packers (MMP), was building towards 25 per cent of the Irish beef trade. He was the only opposition to Goodman's dominance to the business in Ireland. As the two men talked they realised that had common interests: Phelan had the Irish cattle and Taher the Middle Eastern markets, with unparallelled access through his business and political contacts. The two entered a joint venture, Master Meat Packers (Clonmel), and in October 1996, Taher became a full partner in the £90m MMP operation in Ireland, which employed 500 people in Clonmel, Ballymahon, Omagh, Freshford and Bandon. The deal provided that Taher would devote 30 per cent of his time to working for MMP in the Middle East. The partnership deal meant that Taher's agreement was needed before MMP could enter into any contracts or business. Crucially, the two men agreed a ``deadlock mechanism'' which meant that in the event of them falling out, each would be entitled to bid for the other's share. Taher now says that in early 1997 he had a personal dispute with his son, Naser, who was educated in England and Ireland and who had left the Middle East and had come to live in Ireland. He set up an office in Master Meat Packers, but within weeks ``there arose numerous issues of conflict between Naser and Mr Phelan''. Taher says he was finding it hard to devote the 30 per cent time he had agreed to MMP business and he was losing money in both ventures as a result.  Enter Larry ``The meat business is a relatively small community, the number of major players in Europe is no more than 20,'' says Taher. ``I had during my career developed good relationships with many of the major players, including Mr Goodman.'' The two of them had done business together in Iraq, and one throwaway comment had endeared the elderly Arab to the Irish businessman: ``At the relevant time, beef was one of the top export commodities of Ireland and such a position made him both important and powerful. In my earlier dealings with Mr Goodman I found him to be most courteous and confidential. One particular matter put him in mind as someone to consult in my particular dilemma is that on previous occasions Mr Goodman informed me, a number of times, that I reminded him of his father in my way of doing business.'' In April 1987, the two meat barons sat down to dinner in the Berkeley Court Hotel in Dublin. It was part social, part business, and while explaining his problems with his son and his Middle Eastern beef empire, Taher told Goodman he had used a secret Liechtenstein company to buy 50 per cent of MMP. Goodman appeared surprised, but said he would keep it confidential. The following day Goodman phoned. ``I was informed by Mr Goodman that he was keen to assist me and that he had a proposal to resolve my dilemma.'' Larry Goodman proposed to buy Taher's 50 per cent stake in Master Meat Packers, which he said would free up Taher's time to concentrate on his Middle East business and would also allow his son to set up his own beef trading business in Ireland. Taher now says that he proposed telling Pascal Phelan that he was going to sell his interest to Goodman. ``Mr Goodman was not at all keen on this idea,'' he says. Goodman asked to see the legal agreements between Phelan and Taher and these were given to his solicitors. ``Mr Goodman also informed me that he would be concerned in terms of getting approval from the Irish government for the acquisition of my shares in the MMP Group as he already controlled a significant level of the Irish beef industry.'' ``Mr Goodman informed me that he needed to conceal his involvement for a very short period until he could `square' the authorities and Mr Phelan. I recall the use of the world `square' because I had to ask Naser to explain it to me.'' During the following days Taher and Goodman met, with Taher accompanied by his solicitors, Donal Roche and David Prentice of MOP, while Goodman was represented by David Beatty. ``I recall being very surprised when I introduced Mr Roche, another senior partner of MOP to Mr Goodman in the coffee dock at the Berkeley Court hotel in that Mr Roche curtseyed to Mr Goodman, addressing him as the `King', which I took to mean the King of the Irish beef industry.'' Mr Roche is said not to recollect this irreverent gesture. The deal was progressed at the Grosvenor Hotel in London shortly after that. Goodman privately insisted to Taher that ownership of his shares in the MMP Group should be obscured from Mr Phelan and the Irish authorities in the short-term. The reason cited by Mr Goodman was that the Irish government would not sanction the acquisition under the monopoly laws. According to Taher, the mechanism involved Goodman acquiring Taher's shares in his Liechtenstein company (known as an `anstalt'). ``I recall clearly that he stated, quite enthusiastically, that such a mechanism would provide him with a double security in which his ownership could not be disclosed other than somebody getting behind, not only one, but two anstalts. Moreover Mr Goodman stated he had checked out the laws prevailing in the principality of Liechtenstein concerning disclosure of information and secrecy and he was satisfied that they were very strict indeed.'' Taher says that his lawyers agreed to the deal because he was selling his shares in the Liechtenstein Master Anstalt which owned that shareholding in MMP, rather than the MMP shareholding itself. It was a legal device, so his solicitor advised him to get indemnities from Goodman in the event of legal action from Pascal Phelan.  The destruction of Phelan On April 15, 1997, Zakaria Taher was satisfied that his involvement with MMP was over. ``However, unfortunately this was not the case. I, despite the best advice of my solicitors, unwittingly became involved in a trail of deception and misrepresentation, which to this day [some 14 years later] I still have been unable to extricate myself or my family from.'' Taher could not tell Pascal Phelan that he had sold out to Larry Goodman. But, he now says, things were even worse for him. ``The court will appreciate that by giving the power of attorney to Messrs Prentice and Roche, they effectively became the alter ego and legal controllers of my actions in relation to the MMP Group. They were, in turn, obtaining their instruction from Mr Goodman, his servants or agents. Thus, while Mr Phelan was unaware of Mr Goodman's purchase and involvement in the MMP Group, MOP represented that they were acting on my behalf, while in effect, they were acting for and on behalf of Mr Goodman and being paid by him.'' MOP deny that any such power of attorney was executed by Zakaria Taher and state that Messrs Prentice and Roche had no involvement in, or control over, Mr Taher's actions, as alleged. They say they never acted for Mr Goodman in this or any other matter. Taher now refused to have any dealing with Pascal Phelan or the MMP Group, and as a result Mr Phelan, who was still unaware that Taher had sold out, could not make key decisions on behalf of the company. As the weeks and months wore on, Pascal Phelan became increasingly frustrated by what was going on. Phelan offered to sell his share to Taher, or to buy Taher's share back. Goodman was always referred to as ``Mr Big'', ``nameless client'', ``Mutual Friend'' or the code name ``Connacht''. At this time Allied Irish Bank (AIB) had given extended credit of £15m to MMP, while the ACC had extended a further £12m. But after they saw adverts for Taher Meats run by Zakaria Taher's son, Naser the bankers and the IDA began calling Pascal Phelan and asking, ``What is going on?'' Phelan wrote to Taher, saying, ``They see it that you [Zakaria and Naser] are both directors of Master Meat Packers which owes the banks and farmers in Ireland over £19m; you are a major shareholder and they read in the Sunday newspapers where you are setting up in opposition under Taher Meats Limited with your own logo from Amman.'' The banks were now getting seriously worried and began to hold a series of meetings in Dublin. ``During these meetings it became clear to me that I was caught up in a dangerous web of deceit,'' says Taher. ``Mr Goodman's tactic was to force Mr Phelan to give up his shareholding for a nominal value. To do this, he wanted to use the threat of receivership of AIB to terrorise and force Mr Phelan into giving up his shares.'' Phelan became more and more desperate, with Taher refusing to take his calls or answer his faxes. Eventually Mr Phelan's solicitors wrote seeking a final solution: ``In these circumstances, our client, whose personal life has been badly affected by these developments, no longer wishes to continue with Master Meat Packers or to remain involved in partnership with your clients. Accordingly, before initiating the course of action now open to our client, we wish to know the terms under which your clients will acquire voluntarily our client's entire shareholding in Master Meat Packers Group.'' Taher says that this offer gave Goodman the opportunity to close the whole episode. ``I telephoned Mr Goodman and informed him cheerfully that his actions had now manoeuvred and engineered a situation by which he could solve our problem and acquire Mr Phelan's shareholding. I proposed to him that we should offer Mr Phelan the same price which he paid me $9.75m for his shares and then he would own the MMP Group fully and no-one would know because of the Liechtenstein structure,'' according to Taher, who says he was stunned by Goodman's reaction. Mr Goodman was unwilling to pay anything like the sum proposed. Taher now felt hemmed in. ``We [he and Goodman] discussed various actions to withdraw myself from this matter but I felt blocked because I wanted to preserve my position under my indemnities.''  Calling in Mr Crowley Zakaria Taher says that he spent four days in Dublin closeted at meetings with bankers, accountants and Pascal Phelan, who ``literally begged me to be reasonable'' as Taher's actions were putting 500 jobs in jeopardy. ``I recall telling Mr Prentice [of MOP] that `the IRA were not the only terrorists in Ireland' and that what was being done here by Mr Goodman, who held himself out to be the cream of Irish business, was nothing short of `commercial terrorism' on a scale that was out of control.'' Mr Lawrence Crowley, then a senior partner in accountancy firm SKC was then called in and it was proposed that he would be appointed receiver to the now ailing Master Meat Packers group. Taher says he was asked to ``go along'' with this appointment. But now Pascal Phelan decided to try another tack: if Taher (who he still believed was his partner) wouldn't sell to him, then Phelan would offer to sell his 50 per cent stake to Taher under the ``deadlock mechanism'' in their original agreement. ``On September 5, 1988 and without any consultations with, or instructions from me, injunctive proceedings were issued to stop this happening.'' Taher now says he wanted to wash his hands of the entire proceedings and come clean to Pascal Phelan, telling him he had already sold his share to Goodman. But before he could do so, Pascal Phelan was finding out what was going on for himself. In the complicated legal proceedings now underway, Phelan was given a copy of a Coopers & Lybrand Report which had been carried out into MMP, but was supposed to be confidential to Taher. In the margin, in Larry Goodman's handwriting, which Phelan recognised because he had once worked for him, was a note ``check it out, Brian''. Phelan knew he had been betrayed and decided to sell the remaining stake to Goodman. ``Thus Mr Goodman (through the Master Anstalt vehicle) acquired Mr Phelan's share at the knockdown value of £2.75m,'' says Taher. There was only one obstacle left for the full takeover of Master Meat Packers by the Goodman Group government approval. ``Having completed the takeover of Mr Phelan's shareholding on September 14, 1988 Mr [Lawrence] Crowley wrote to the Irish Minister for Industry and Commerce [Mr Albert Reynolds] seeking consent for the takeover under the Mergers, Takeovers and Monopolies (Control) Act, 1978. Mr Crowley stated in the first paragraph of his letter to the Minister: `I act for Master Meat Anstalt ... on behalf of Middle Eastern interests.''' According to Taher, Lawrence Crowley knew that he was not acting for Middle Eastern interests, but for Larry Goodman. The Sunday Independent has asked Mr Crowley a series of questions on this issue but has so far not received a reply. And so, 14 years on from the original deal, teams of solicitors are gearing up to hear the complex tale of how Zakaria Taher became embroiled in the Irish beef industry and how, if he cannot enforce his indemnities from Larry Goodman, he faces ruin. 
