middle east
{ Colin Brown 
    July 27 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/ceasefire-pressure-on-blair-and-bush-as-the-conflict-rages-26376636.html }
TONY Blair will face fresh pressure over the Middle East crisis today as the British Prime Minister arrives in Washington to meet George Bush with the two leaders increasingly isolated in the face of worldwide calls for an immediate ceasefire. Senior Downing Street aides last night said Mr Blair and Mr Bush intend to show the world they are seeking an urgent end to the hostilities in Lebanon. TONY Blair will face fresh pressure over the Middle East crisis today as the British Prime Minister arrives in Washington to meet George Bush with the two leaders increasingly isolated in the face of worldwide calls for an immediate ceasefire. Senior Downing Street aides last night said Mr Blair and Mr Bush intend to show the world they are seeking an urgent end to the hostilities in Lebanon, despite the failure of the much vaunted Rome summit on Wednesday to deliver a unified call for a truce. Israel's Justice Minister, Haim Ramon, added to the pressure on Mr Bush and Mr Blair yesterday, when he interpreted that indecision as a green light to continue the bloody assault on Lebanon. Permission "We received yesterday at the Rome conference permission from the world to continue the operation," he told reporters. The prime minister's visit takes place as senior figures from the worlds of politics, diplomacy, academia and the media put their names to a missive urging Mr Blair to tell the president that Britain "can no longer support the American position on the unfolding humanitarian catastrophe in the Middle-East". The figures have signed a declaration, printed on the front page of today's 'Independent' calling on the prime minister to "make urgent representations to Israel to end its disproportionate and counter-productive response to Hizbollah's aggression". After a brief stop-over in Washington, Mr Blair will fly on to California tonight after meeting the president to attend a News International conference for Rupert Murdoch. An ally of Mr Murdoch, Irwin Stelzer yesterday insisted Mr Blair was not Mr Bush's 'poodle', but his 'guide dog', particularly over the Middle East. Downing Street officials said Mr Blair intended to respond to world criticism by showing urgency in seeking an end to the hostilities between Israel and Hizbollah. The prime minister and the president are planning to commit their governments to a lasting ceasefire by restoring the authority of the elected government against the unilateral action by Hizbollah. Their joint appearance at the White House is likely to be met with scepticism. The Bush administration said this week it is seeking a 'new Middle East'. Fears are also being raised the crisis is a proxy war between the US and Iran, Hizbollah's backers. Senior officials in Downing Street said the Prime Minister supported the US strategy on the Middle East, which was agreed at the Sea Island G8 summit in 2004. Mr Blair is credited with persuading Mr Bush to pursue a two-state solution. (© Independent News) 
