middle east
{  
    January 09 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/laytown-man-returns-from-middle-east-africa-trek-27105434.html }
Over the past year 25-year-old Philip McAllister has travelled through Yemen, Egypt, Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Iran, Ethiopia and Sudan.While some western observers would say that Philip was taking his life in his hands making such a journey, the Laytown man says the area is very misrepresented.There is always random acts of violence. But essentially Over the past year 25-year-old Philip McAllister has travelled through Yemen, Egypt, Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Iran, Ethiopia and Sudan. While some western observers would say that Philip was taking his life in his hands making such a journey, the Laytown man says the area is ‘very misrepresented.’ ‘There is always random acts of violence. But essentially it’s a safe place in which to travel,’ said Philip. He said the most striking feature of the region is not the violence but is in fact the friendliness of the different nations. ‘Contrary to popular belief,’ said Philip, ‘this is not a military zone.’ ‘People do get on with their everyday chores. Life goes on. The Middle East is not full of crazy despots, as the western media would like you to believe. It’s a civil place. ‘The majority of the people are kind hearted and friendly,’ he added. However Philip said he was moved by the abject poverty in Ethiopia. ‘It was heart breaking. There was so much begging and so much poverty. People were not starving they were just so poor, ’said Philip. The 25-year-old also got a rare insight into the cultural diversity that makes up the region. He said the different religions and the architecture make the Middle East a very special place. ‘It’s a fascinating part of the world, especially the Shia religion in Iran,’ he added. Philip revealed that the Shia’s have a complete ban on alcohol and scrupulously uphold Muslim law. He said Iran, though viewed as a pariah state in the eyes of some western countries, is one of the friendliest places he visited. ‘They are a very humble people and are extremely friendly,’ he said. Philip also heaped praise on Bettystown man, John Carolan who works for the UN in Damascus. John has spent many years in the region and is an acknowledged expert on the Middle East. ‘I cannot talk too highly about John,’ said Philip, ‘he has a magnificent insight and dept of knowledge. ‘He was able to set me on the right path at all times,’ he added. Throughout the course of his 14-month journey, the 25-year-old Laytown man enjoyed a magnificently healthy diet consisting of fresh and dried fruits, pulses, bread and rice. ‘I never tasted as many varieties of bread and fruit. In fact, I never felt better,’ he added. Philip also gave details period of employment with the English language Yemen Observer. He said the newspaper, which is based in Djibouti, provided English speakers with a quality regional newspaper. His duties included making corrections to Arabic-English translations. Yemen, according to Philip, has a reasonable standard of living and is very cheap on the pocket. ‘You can survive on $100 per month,’ he added. Asked about his future intentions the 25-year-old said he wants to spend time at home with his family before finalising details of his next journey. ‘I really enjoyed seeing the different cultures and traditions,’ said Philip. ‘I’m a different person today than the one I was almost 14-months ago,’ he added. And the highlight? ‘Possibly the Egyptian Pyramids,’ said Philip, ‘they were magnificent, truly a wonder of the world, ’he added. 
