middle east
{  
    February 08 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/kerrygold-mid-east-sales-up-due-to-fallout-from-cartoon-row-26398537.html }
Aideen Sheehan Food Correspondent SALES of Kerrygold butter have increased in the Middle East to fill the gap left by a boycott of Danish products in protest at cartoons of the prophet Mohammed. The Irish Dairy Board is sending a representative on a trade mission to the region this weekend in a bid to increase sales further. A board spokesperson said the increase in sales was probably down to shortages caused by the boycott of Danish company Arla Foods, which had expanded hugely in the Middle Eastern market in recent years. Irish dairy sales in the Middle East have generally been quite small and no special efforts are being made to promote Irish products in the volatile situation, the spokesperson said. This contrasts with New Zealand dairy giant Fonterra, which, in order to protect its substantial sales in the Middle East, has taken out full-page ads in Middle Eastern papers to assure consumers it is not a Danish company. Arla Foods had switched a huge amount of production there to capture the growing market for dairy produce, announcing further expansion just a few months ago. But its business has been wiped out by Muslim anger over a Danish newspaper publishing satirical cartoons of Mohammed with a bomb on his head. The Irish Dairy Board is sending a representative to a trade show in Dubai this weekend, but a spokesperson said this may have been planned before the present situation erupted. President McAleese will also lead a trade delegation to Saudi Arabia and Jordan this weekend and address the Jeddah Economic Forum in Saudi, and her spokesperson said there were no changes to the schedule as a result of the present situation. "We are maintaining a business-as-usual approach but we are not pushing anything," the Irish Dairy Board spokesperson said. "There has been a slight increase in business but not a huge one." The situation could change very quickly if the Irish media reproduced the controversial cartoons, she said. Ireland also sells unbranded dairy ingredients to food manufacturers in the Middle East. LIFTING THE VEIL: 15 
