middle east
{  
    September 26 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/muslims-puzzled-by-sword-question-26366866.html }
In response to 'My friends back in the Middle East' (Letters, September 21), as an Irish born Catholic with business and family links routed throughout the Middle East, I find it hard to comprehend that an informal survey could yield such coincidental results, which implied that the most cherished possession in Islam is The Sword of Mohammed. Puzzled by your correspondent's fi In response to 'My friends back in the Middle East' (Letters, September 21), as an Irish born Catholic with business and family links routed throughout the Middle East, I find it hard to comprehend that an informal survey could yield such coincidental results, which implied that the most cherished possession in Islam is The Sword of Mohammed. Puzzled by your correspondent's findings, I conducted my own survey based on input from Muslim friends and extended family living in both Ireland and the Middle East. wasn't at all surprised, when not a single respondent mentioned the above possession (see quotation below from one of the subjects I surveyed on Sunday, September 25). Quotation: "The immediate answer of most Moslems would be puzzlement at the nature of the question. To own anything belonging to the prophet would be frowned on, even wishing to own anything by the prophet would be seen as missing the point of his prophecy as every prophet's legacy is his/her teachings as opposed to material possessions. This point is inherent in Islamic teaching which goes so far as forbidding the drawing of the prophet - and the aim here is to move people away from idolising materialism. While the phenomena of 'owning' or 'possessing' an item belonging to another person has reached such outrageous proportions in the rock music world that we in the West have come to see it as part of popular culture, it is virtually unthinkable in the Islamic world." This quotation is from Mr Sami Moukaddem, Counselling Psychologist, who used to work in the Health Board. As the letter also emphasised the religion of the man jailed for shooting Pope John Paul II, it should be noted that at the time it was not the man's religion the media focused their attention on, but the independent motives and madness behind his actions. Furthermore, just as there were no riots or burning of Middle Eastern embassies in the West after the assassination attempt, there were no celebrations going on in the East in commemoration. In fact, it was clearly condemned by all religions. Mind you, had such an event taken place today I suspect the West would quickly link it to Islam and Jihad. And we all know too well where fabrications like this can lead us . . . PATRICK SIMONS, CASTLEKNOCK D15 
