middle east
{ Mary Fitzgerald 
    February 06 2016 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/oil-crash-couldnt-have-come-at-worse-time-for-middle-east-34428450.html }
The drop in oil prices over the past 18 months has been nothing short of dizzying, plummeting from $115 a barrel to around $28 at present, the lowest level since 2003.  Many analysts predict it has some way to go yet, with some even raising the prospect of an oil price as low as $10 a barrel. The precipitous decline is due to several factors: the growth of fracking in the US has disrupted supply-and-demand patterns, and the faltering of once-booming economies in states like China and Brazil has also had a considerable impact.  The reason many expect a further spiralling over the next months is the lifting of sanctions on oil-rich Iran, allowing Tehran to muscle its way back into the global energy market. Given the geopolitics of oil production, a fall in the price of crude has huge ramifications for exporters across the world, from Saudi Arabia to Russia and Nigeria to Venezuela.  History shows how much a tumble in prices can shake countries, regions and even the entire global order. From the oil crisis of the 1970s, which brought the Middle East front and centre, to the mid-1980s oil crash which contributed to the fall of the Soviet Union, the lessons are clear. The decline this time comes at one of the most tumultuous periods in the modern history of the Middle East. Five years after the start of the revolutions and uprisings that swept across the Middle East and Africa and collectively became known as the Arab Spring, Syria, Libya, Iraq and Yemen are mired in chaos.  Egypt is again locked under the severe repression of a military regime. The tremors from each of these 'sick men' are being felt in neighbouring states and across the region more generally. And in the midst of the blood, upheaval and crackdowns, Isil has embedded itself in Syria, Iraq and, more recently, Libya. The shock of falling oil prices is being felt by economies around the world but they will hit the Middle East, already in turmoil and home to several major oil-producing nations, hardest. Already, many are feeling the economic, social and, in some cases, political ripples. Take Saudi Arabia. The desert kingdom's income from oil dropped by 23pc last year, a significant dent in an economy where over 70pc of total revenues comes from the hydrocarbons sector. According to the government, the budget deficit was close to $100bn. The country's stock exchange has also taken a hit. The kingdom's rulers are mulling some limited reforms to cope with the crunch but also keeping in mind the need to stave off public discontent. Late last year, King Salman reduced the domestic subsidy on petrol by 40pc. There are plans to cut public sector salaries and accelerate long overdue efforts to diversify the economy in order to lessen the dependence on oil. The re-entry of Iran to the international oil market is certain to needle Saudi Arabia in all sorts of ways, not least because Tehran is Riyadh's main regional rival and the two are locked in an increasingly bitter power play. The United Arab Emirates is also experiencing difficulties resulting from the oil price drop. The UAE central bank says revenues have fallen by 23pc and, despite government moves to cut spending on infrastructure and subsidies, the deficit has ballooned. Elsewhere in the Gulf, Qatar is also feeling the pinch: several construction projects have been put on hold and the Doha-headquartered Al Jazeera television network has been forced to scale down dramatically. In north Africa, the dramatic decline in the price of crude could not have come at a worse time for Libya, reeling already from the effects of an almost two-year-old conflict, underpinned by a bitter political power struggle and now made more complicated by the expanding presence of Isil. Home to Africa's largest oil reserves, the country is burdened by one of the largest public payrolls in the world along with massive fuel and food subsidies, all a leftover from the Gaddafi era. Instability has driven oil production down to under 400,000 barrels per day, a fraction of the 1.6 million barrels per day Libya had been pumping before Gaddafi's overthrow. Libya's central bank has been forced to burrow deeply into its foreign reserves to cover the budget, and Western officials have warned that the country faces bankruptcy. Last month, former UN envoy to Libya Bernardino Leon was blunt in his assessment. "Libya is a failed state and will be for a long time," he said. If the price of oil drops even further, it would spell even greater disaster, not only for Libya but its neighbours and Europe. Irish Independent 
