middle east
{ Robert Fisk 
    October 08 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/truth-as-always-is-the-first-real-casualty-26070467.html }
A FEW months ago, my old friend Tom Friedman set off for the small gulf emirate of Qatar from where, in one of his messianic columns for the New York Times he informed us that the tiny state's Al-Jazeera satellite channel was a  welcome sign that democracy might be coming to the Middle East. A FEW months ago, my old friend Tom Friedman set off for the small gulf emirate of Qatar from where, in one of his messianic columns for the New York Times he informed us that the tiny state's Al-Jazeera satellite channel was a welcome sign that democracy might be coming to the Middle East. Ad-Jazeera had been upsetting some of the local Arab dictators - President Mubarak of Egypt for one - and Tom thought this a good idea. So do I. But hold everything. The story is being rewritten. Last week, US Secretary of State Colin Powell rapped the Emir of Qatar over the knuckles because - so he claimed - Al-Jazeera was "inciting anti-Americanism". So goodbye democracy. The Americans want the Emir to close down the channel's office in Kabul which is scooping the world with tape of the US bombardments and - more to the point - with televised statements by Osama bin Laden. The most wanted man in the whole world has been suggesting that he's angry about the deaths of Iraqi children under sanctions, about the corruption of pro-Western Arab regimes, about Israel's attacks on the Palestinian territory, about the need for US forces to leave the Middle East. And after insisting that bin Laden is a "mindless terrorist" - that there is no connection between US policy in the Middle East and the crimes against humanity in New York and Washington - the Americans need to close down Al-Jazeera coverage. Needless to say this tomfoolery by Colin Powell has not been given much coverage in the Western media who know that they do not have a single correspondent in the Taliban area of Afghanistan. Al-Jazeera does. But why, oh why, are we journalists falling back on the same sheep-like conformity that they adopted in the 1991 Gulf War and the 1999 Kosovo war? For here we go again. The BBC was yesterday broadcasting an American officer talking about the dangers of "collateral damage" - without the slightest hint of the immorality of this phrase. Tony Blair boasts of Britain's involvement in the US bombardment by talking about "our assets" and by yesterday morning, the BBC were using the same soldier-speak. Is there some kind of rhetoric fog that envelops us every time we bomb someone? As usual, the first reports of the US missile attacks were covered without the slightest suggestion that innocents were about to die in the country they plan to "save". Whether the Taliban are lying or telling the truth about 30 dead in Kabul, do we reporters really think that all the bombs fall on the guilty and not the innocent? Do we think that all the food we, the coalition, are reported to be dropping is going to fall around the innocent and not the Taliban? I am beginning to wonder whether we have not convinced ourselves that wars - our wars - are movies. The only Hollywood film ever made about Afghanistan was a Rambo epic in which Sylvester Stallone taught the Afghan moujahadin how to fight the Russian occupation, help to defeat Soviet troops and won the admiration of an Afghan boy. Are the Americans, I wonder, somehow trying to actualise the movie? To be fair, one of the very few reporters to tell us the truth about the Arab world's revolt against the American-British bombardment was the BBC's Frank Gardner who pointed out with great frankness that the West had totally failed to convince the Arabs of the need to bomb Afghanistan. He talked of Saudi's weeping with sorrow at the air assault on bin Laden. Bin Laden, you see, is a dangerously popular man in much of the Middle East - which is why the Americans want to censor Al-Jazeera. But look at the questions we're not asking. Back in 1991 that coalition dumped the cost of the Gulf War - billions of dollars of it - on Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. But the Saudis and Kuwaitis are not going to fund the bombing this time round. So who's going to pay? When? How much will it cost - and I mean us? The first night of bombing cost, so we are told, at least $2m, I suspect much more. Latest projections say $50m. Let us not ask how many Afghans that would have fed - but do let's ask how much money is going towards the war and how much towards humanitarian aid. Bin Laden's propaganda is pretty basic. He films his own statements and sends one of his henchmen off to the Al-Jazeera office in Kabul. No vigorous questioning of course, just a sermon. So far we've not seen any video clips of destroyed Taliban equipment, the ancient Migs and even older Warsaw Pact tanks that have been rusting across Afghanistan for years. Only a sequence of pictures - apparently real - of bomb damage in a civilian area of Kabul. The Taliban have kept reporters out. But does that mean we have to balance this distorted picture with our own half truths? Don't we realise after NATO's lies in 1999 that we may be lied to again? Remember the scores of Albanian refugees supposed killed by Serb planes but in fact bombed by NATO jets? Remember the train bombed by the Americans on a railway bridge? And how NATO ran the videotape of the train at twice its actual speed? And how it was only revealed later that the target was bombed a second time after the train was clearly seen to have halted on the bridge? And how the Serbs were said to have bombed the centre of Pristina early in the war when in fact NATO had bombed it and how we were told of the dozens of Serb tanks destroyed by smart weapons when the true figure turned out to be just 12? Asking those questions in 1999 immediately bought accusations of being "pro-Serb" - or "pro-Iraqi" if one pointed out in 1991, correctly as it turned out, that the Americans were to blame for much of the oil pollution in the gulf. It's still not time to allege that journalist are "pro-bin Laden" - that would really be a bit too much - but our potential muzzlers have discovered a useful smear: to question to "war on terrorism" - which is anyway not a war on terrorism but a war against America's enemies - is to be "anti-American". It's an old cliche dragged back from the Cold War, redolent of long hair and pot and CND and opposing the Vietnam war. And after watching the mass murders in New York, who would dare to criticise American's polices in the Middle East? Of course, I know the moral question. After the atrocities in New York we can't 'play fair' between the ruthless bin Laden and the West; we can't make an equivalence between the mass-murderer's innocence and the American and British forces who are trying to destroy the Taliban. Why, when President Bush tells us he's not against the Afghan people - only the Taliban and bin Laden's "network of terror" - don't we remind our readers and viewers that President Reagan said the same of the Libyans before the bombed Libya? And that President Bush Snr said the same of the Iraqis before he bombed Iraq? Must we, because of our rage at the massacre of the innocents in America, because of our desire to kowtow to the elderly 'terrorism experts', must we lose all our critical faculties? Why at least not tell us how these 'terrorism experts' came to be so expert? And what are their connections with dubious intelligence services? In some cases, in America, the men giving us their advice on screen are the very same operatives who steered the CIA and the FBI into the greatest intelligence failure in modern history: the inability to uncover the plot, four years in the making, to destroy the lives of almost 6,000 people. President Bush Jnr says this is a war between good and evil. You are either with us or against us. But that's exactly what bin Laden says. Isn't it worth pointing this out and asking where it leads? (Independent News Service). 
