middle east
{ Samantha McCaughren 
    September 09 2018 05:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/medical-devices-firm-trimedika-plans-expansion-into-africa-and-middle-east-37296342.html }
Northern Ireland-based medical devices company Trimedika is planning to expand into Europe, Africa and the Middle East. The company, founded by Julie Brien and Roisin Molloy, sells high-tech thermometers which can read temperatures without touching the body. "We're growing a level up now, we need to grow the sales team and the support team," said Brien. "That will allow us to start to develop in markets where we have distributor contact, but haven't set them up yet. That would include the Middle East, Scandinavia, other parts of Europe and we are giving serious consideration to parts of Africa." There are four people working for Trimedika, with plans to take on another five by the end of next year. She said that new sales people would focus on developing relationships with existing distributors, while she and Molloy will work on entering into new distribution deals internationally. The business's main markets are UK and Ireland, although the company already has distributors in Chile and Australia, for example. The company secured investment of £150,000 this year. Molloy said that the company has "never been in the red and we have a healthy bank balance". Trimedika has had major breakthroughs in accessing hospitals in recent months. Its products have been adopted by the Business Services Framework in Northern Ireland, which services the six trusts in Northern Ireland which sell into hospitals. It is also on the NHS supply chain, which means British hospitals can also buy its devices. The company products are also now available to the HSE.  According to Molloy, the key benefit for the Trimedika thermometer is that fact that it significantly cuts down on waste as it does not touch the patient cutting out the need for a plastic cover or cap.  The 'no touch' element is also better from an infection-control point of view, for use on difficult patients, and means patient sleep does not have to be interrupted. Trimedika's first device did not have connectivity to the hospital's infrastructure, but leading hospitals in the UK are now investing heavily in technology which will create demand for the company's more sophisticated thermometers.   Sunday Indo Business 
