middle east
{  
    April 16 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/us-must-cajole-israelis-europe-the-palestinians-26008833.html }
WASHINGTON got Brian Cowen off the hook yesterday, just in time to help  vindicate the Foreign Minister's pragmatic approach to the Middle East and Iraq. Mr Cowen made two clear statements yesterday that are more controversial when their meaning is analysed, than his laconic delivery might suggest. On Iraq, Mr Cowen led the charge for a full-scale return of the United Nations to a central role for the country as the best, if not only way to bring peace. His enthusiasm was startling, considering the obvious volatility and security concerns that make it more difficult, not less, for the UN, and through it, the EU to get centrally involved after the US transfers sovereignty in two months time. And on the Middle East, Mr Cowen was adamant that European countries would not recognise any changes to the planned borders of a Palestinian State, without the consent of the Palestinians people themselves. All of this in stark contrast to president Bush's stance on the issues. Happily, however, over in Washington Mr Cowen's position in Mr Bush's good books was almost reinstated when the president subtly pulled back from his controversial one-sided backing for Israel earlier in the week, using a meeting with British prime minister, Tony Blair to tell the world he did not prejudge the outcome of talks on the creation of a Palestinian State. Squaring the impossible circles on Iraq, Israel and Kosovo were at the heart of yesterday's brainstorming session amongst EU Foreign Ministers, and while the outcome may appear little to show for a day of discussion, there was little obvious acrimony. There's a good reason the problems in Iraq and the Middle East are intractable, but like some others, such as the Northern Ireland peace process, the slow pace of progress can suddenly yield results and lasting results at that. A categorical clarification for the Palestinians of what Mr Bush means, is absolutely crucial to help defuse concerns that Israel is about to get its own way with American backing, thus ending the Palestinian dreams of their own country once again. But it also serves a reminder on the true context of the supporters of the peace process. American must cajole the Israelis and Europe must do the same with the Palestinians. In Offaly, Mr Bush's row back was just what Mr Cowen needed to justify his initial emphasis on the positive, while not quite ignoring the negative in President Bush's comments earlier this week, that were perceived by some as the death of the road map to peace. The road map, as Mr Cowen, George W Bush and the External Relations Commissioner Chris Patten pointed out, is the only way to a peaceful, two-state solution in the Middle East. Commissioner Patten pointed out that the contents of the so-called road map are effectively a statement acknowledged by all sides involved in the problem, of what is necessary to reach a deal, and he also made it clear that no matter what Israel may offer, it will not be accepted until it moves all its illegal settlements, not just a few. When it comes to the pitifully slow rate of progress, it is possible this could be on the cards in in Iraq as well as the Middle East. Perhaps the escalating violence in Iraq will truly focus the United States on the essential involvement of the UN to legitimise attempts to establish peaceful democracy in the country. If so, Mr Cowen's support, on behalf of the EU will strengthen the hand of the UN. In the Middle East too, the sudden momentum towards change, even if controversial, may be the only hope of injecting any fresh hope of a peaceful settlement and the creation of two viable states for Israelis and Palestinians. 
