middle east
{ Bronwen Maddox in Washington 
    April 04 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/americas/speech-marks-seismic-shift-in-us-middle-east-policy-26050497.html }
IT WAS the best speech President Bush has given - and one  of the most important. It was not a surprise. A hardening of the US tone towards Israel has been looming for a couple of days. If there was one image that did it, it was the Israeli tanks outside the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem. Many passionate Israeli supporters in Washington looked at those pictures with appalled astonishment, reckoning that this just could not be in Israel's interest. We can credit the Crawford summit between Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair, starting today, for playing a small part. Once the Administration was clear it wanted to change its tone, it was emphatically clear it did not want anyone to say Blair had talked Bush into it. So Bush had to move fast. Bush did not spare the Palestinians. One of his opening salvoes was that "Blowing yourself up does not help the Palestinian cause. To the contrary, suicide bombing missions could well blow up the best and only hope for a Palestinian state." The US position has not changed here at all: the suicide attacks are despicable terrorism from which Israel has every right to defend itself. But this speech will be remembered for the remarks directed at Israel. Bush said that Israel should "withdraw from those areas it has recently occupied", halt settlement building, and then withdraw to within recognised boundaries. This is an unambiguous position. Even though Bush took pains to say that "I speak as a committed friend of Israel," and to condemn repeatedly the bloody Palestinian attacks, it does mark a distinct change, which clarifies the confusion of American policy in the past fortnight, and brings several conflicting strands into line. For a start, it backs up the resolution of the United Nations Security Council at the weekend, which the US supported, calling on Israel to pull back from its reoccupation. Bush took care in his speech to spell this out in its component parts. That removes the grossest contradiction of this week, when despite its support for the Security Council, the US appeared also to be tolerating Israel's incursion. Bush, standing next to Secretary of State Colin Powell, and announcing that Powell would go to the Middle East next week, also vastly improved the chances of that trip. The main problem of Dick Cheney's lengthy and frustrating trip last month was that the brief changed while he was there. The Vice-President went to sound out Arab opinion on an Iraqi strike, and found the Middle East conflagration burning up his agenda papers. Powell has a chance of something like progress. That means, among other things, not being marginalised as special envoy Anthony Zinni has been. Powell's message will be that pursuing security is fine, a ceasefire is desirable, but that these must be embedded in a positive political process. Which brings us to the summit at Bush's ranch at Crawford, Texas. Bush's speech removes any possible conflict between the two; indeed, it rather upstages Blair, usurping his message. Both will agree, too, on Iraq. Blair will push the line hard that more communication is needed to convince the world that Saddam Hussein and his ambitions for weapons of mass destruction are the world's problem, not just the US's or Britain's obsession. But it has moved down the agenda, not just because of the Middle East, but because action is not imminent. That suits Blair, given the criticism at home, and has grudgingly been accepted in Washington after Cheney's rocky trip. The summit, then, can be expected to produce a strong statement of unity, and to be altogether more sombre and serious than was first envisaged. It was meant to be a bonding weekend. But against the backdrop of the Middle East, it will hardly be as lighthearted as originally imagined. For all the palliness, they will not seem equals, particularly after Bush's speech. Blair now cuts a much lonelier figure than Bush. ( The Times, London) 
