middle east
{  
    February 17 2015 07:03 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/sport/gaa/beaufort-31000666.html }
BEAUFORT  Lotto: Next draw for lotto jackpot of €3,200 will be held in Kate Kearney's on Sunday, 22nd February. Please support as this helps in the day to day running of the Club. Tickets are available from usual sellers and in local shops and bars.   Seniors Our Seniors sponsored by Maurice Foley of MF Decorating began their 2015 campaign well on Sunday when they hosted an understrength Laune Rangers team in Beaufort. Laune Rangers settled better and were ahead in the first quarter but Beaufort had points from Niall O'Connor, Liam Caey (2) , Fergal Hallissey and a free from Kevin O'Brien and once Padraig O'Sullivan scored their first of 3 goals in the first half the game was over on the scoreboard. Their 2nd goal came from Fergal Hallissey after his mid-field partner Francis Courtney put him through while the 3rd came from full-forward Kevin O'Brien after an accurate corss-field pass from Danny Healy. The half ended in drama when Beaufort's goalkeeper Mike Moriarty hauled down Kerry player and mid-fielder Peter Crowley for a penalty. Peter took the penalty himself but Mike redeemed himself and brought off a fine save. Half-time score Beaufort 3-5 Laune Rangers 0-7 . Laune Rangers had a lot of missed chances and also came up against a hard-working defence while Beaufort picked away with scores - 2 points from Francis Courtney (1free), 2 fine points from wing-back Sean Fogarty and full-back Gerard Hartnett. Fergal Hallissey had a 45 and one from play while Jason Foley had Beaufort's 4th goal.  Fixtures Beaufort Minors away to John Mitchels on Sat, 21st February at 4pm in Co Minor Lge, Round 1. Beaufort Seniors are home to Cromane in 2nd Round of Mid-Kerry League on Sunday at 2.00pm.  Healthy Club Project Our Good Friday Walk will be held again this year in association with Kerry Cancer Hospice on Good Friday April,3rd. More details later.  We hope to have a good crowd from the Parish taking part in this Walk to raise monies for such a good cause and for everybody's wellbeing. We hope to organise more activities throughout the year for the community.    Membership: Membership is now due. Rates are as follows: Family €50- this covers U18 players and younger in a family and it also gives one adult (over 18) use of the gym. Senior players-€50. Adult only (no gym) membership-€30. Membership must be paid by 31st March, 2015. Contact Patie Hartnett on 087 2515311.    Club Gear: All club gear is available from U-6 to Seniors. Hoodies, Half-zip Tops, Jersies, shorts and socks at 2014 prices. Contact Mary 086 0640065 or Nora 086 1556181 for same.  Gumshields are compulsory for all age group from adult players to U6 boys and girls both during games and training.     Gym: Beaufort Gym is open from 7.00am to 10pm. Great value in Membership at only €50. An instructor will be available for Induction for anyone interested. Please contact Patie on 087 2515311.   CROMANE LOTTO: The numbers drawn  on 11th February 15 in the Gaa Lotto Draw were 13-16.20.29. There was no winner of the €7-000 Jackpot. Four prizes of €30 each went to Kevin Dunne.c/o Patie Healy. Ticket sold by Patie Healy.  Daniel O.Sullivan.Cromane Lr.. Ticket sold by Jacks.  Breda O.Shea- St. James Gardens. Ticket sold by Killorglin Cr. Union. Jimmy McMahon- Cromane  Lr. Annual. Ticket.   Jackpot now €7-100.   TICKETS available at local businesses and from usual sellers.  If youre not in- you  cant win.   MEMBERSHIP; of Cromane Gaa Club is  now due. Adults €40. Players €50. Students €20.Under Age €10. Family €50.   payable to Registrars Sinead Lavin- Patrick Casey or Sean Reilly.   COISTE NA NOG: We will have the Coiste na nÓg Registration  morning on Sun Feb 22nd after Mass in Cromane Centre. Membership can also be collected. There will be tea/coffee for the parents and goodie bags for the kids on the morning.   MID KERRY LEAGUE: Cromane are away to Beaufort in round 2 of the Mid Kerry League on Sun 22nd at 2pm.   CURROW CURRANS Ladies Football Club: On Sunday last Feb 15th the Football Year started off when our Senior Ladies played John mitchells in the first Round of the County League. Mitchells run out winners 5-08 to 2-07. Currow team and Scorers: Leona McEnery, Maggie O'Sullivan, Kerri McCarthy, Sharon Breen, Sheonagh Fleming, Marie Brosnan, Roisin Daly (0-02), Emir O'Shea, Fiona Nelligan McGuire (1-02), Margo Brosnan (0-01), Aoife Walsh (1-00), Louise Nelligan (0-02), Orla Brosnan, Elaine Mitchell, Rebecca Lyons, Aisling O'Sullivan.  Our next County League match is March 07th. East Kerry Super League - Currow played Listry in the first round of the East Kerry Super League on Sunday last. This game was due to be played in Currow at 12 noon, but when the Listry team and manager arrived in Currow and found another game in progress at 11-45 the decided they were not waiting. They decided to move the game to Listry and the game did not start there until 1-15 approx. This was done without the knowledge of the referee or the East Kerry Board. When the game did get going the pace was quiet slow, it being the first game of the new season and underfoot conditions were heavy. Currow got off to the better start and were four points to two up by the quarter hour mark. By half hour the score was seven points to three in favour of Currow. Scorers for Currow in the first half were Dan O' Shea (2p) Pa Mc Carthy (1p, 1-45) Seamus Brosnan, Padraig O' Shea, Paudie Collins 1p each and for Listry Ronan Buckley (2p) Joseph Clifford (1p).  By the end of the third quarter Listry had closed the gap to two points with points from their mid fielder and Buckley again. Currow again took hold of the game and with points from Padraig O'Shea, Dan O' Shea and John Mc Mahon lead by ten points to five going into the last five minutes. Listry added two further points one more from their midfielder and one from their sub Kevin Courtney leaving the full time score Currow 0-10 Listry 0-07  The February lotto draw will be held in Cunniffes Bar Currow on next Sunday night February 22nd for a jackpot of EUR2,700-00. Tickets are on sale at all business premises in the parish, by all players and all officers.  The club would like to congratulate Brosna and Ardfert on being crowned Junior and Intermediate Champions in Croke Park on Saturday last. They really put club football in Kerry on the map and set the standard for all the other clubs in the county.  DR CROKES  The Senior Football squad started their competitive season with two East Kerry Senior League fixtures in 48 hours, both under lights at Lewis Rd.  On Wednesday 11 Feb 2015, Listry were the visitors and a strong Crokes selection recorded a 2-13 to 0-05 victory to open their 2015 campaign, the goals coming courtesy of Brian Looney and Andrew Kenneally.  Then on Friday 13th, Cordal were defeated 4-19 to 0-05.  This time the goals were supplied by Jamie Doolan, Chris Brady(2) and Mike Milner. Chris set up Jamie to raise the first green flag of the evening, then added a brace himself, the first after good approach work by Brian Looney, the second from the spot after Cian O'Neill was fouled. Mike Milner finished to the roof of the net in adding a fourth Crokes goal.  Chris Brady finished the game with a superb 2-10 and it was good to see Alan Kelly back between the sticks, adding further competition for the Crokes number one jersey.    The U21s played their previously postponed East Kerry Div 1 Championship game away to Rathmore on Sunday 15 March at midday but will have to do it all again as the game finished Rathmore 4-09, Dr Crokes 1-18, after extra time.    The Minors start their County League fixtures with a game away to Kerins O'Rahillys at 4pm on Saturday 21 February.  The Senior Ladies also had their first outing of the season away to Finuge on Sunday 15 February.They went down 4-09 to 2-07 despite a strong second half showing. Down 15 points at halftime having played into a strong wind, they outscored their opponents by 7 points with the elements but still came up short on account of not taking a number of chances created.    LOTTO: Draw took place in the Tatler Bar on Sunday last. Numbers drawn:4,9,11 & 12. There was no winner of the jackpot of €3,000. 9 players matched 3 numbers and won €45 each.  Next week's jackpot is €3,000. Draw will take place in the Tatler on Sunday 22 Feb 2015.   DATES FOR YOUR DIARY:   Strictly Come Dancing, Thursday 5th March 2015 - Club Social, Monday 16th March 2015    STRICTLY COME DANCING: Tickets for the big night on 5th March, priced €15 Adults & €5 for Under 16s,are now on sale from the participants,the INEC Box Office and from the organising committee of Matt O'Neill, Ger O'Shea, Terry Potts and Vince Casey.   Special family tickets(2 Adults and 2 Children) available from Vince (087-2461599)   See DRCROKES.COM  for latest updates.  CHANGE OF PLANS-JUVENILE ACADEMY   As Dr Crokes are now hosting the Corn Ui Mhuiri final on Saturday 28 February, the first Juvenile Academy day of the new season has now been put back a week until 7 March 2015 and the new date will also serve as a registration day for all existing and new members.  Again please note the change of date for the Academy commencement, now on 7 March 2015  Should be some day so watch Dr Crokes social media for further details.    HURLING: Dr. Crokes GAA Club are a true dual GAA club and we are currently seeking new members, both adult and underage, living in the greater Killarney area, to join our hurling section.  We have a vibrant underage coaching structure catering for boys and girls from six years old and upwards. Coaching and training is on Saturday mornings and parents are assured that their children will be looked after is a safe, friendly, healthy and welcoming environment. Visit DRCROKES.COM , Coiste na nOg section for more information. Contact us at secretary.drcrokes.kerry@gaa.ie    SCOR: Best wishes to our Senior Quiz Team who travel to Brosna on Saturday 21 February to compete in the County Final of Scor Sinsear.  Also best of luck to our young members who will be competing in the East Kerry Final of Scor na bPaisti in Fossa Community Centre on Friday 20 February, starting at 4pm. Again a big thank you to the parents, children, mentors and Scor Committee for their commitment to the cultural side of the club.  Any queries regarding Scor competitions contact Teresa 086-3487671.     CLUB DEVELOPMENT:  Their was a fantastic response from members to assist with the installation of the the seats into the stand on Saturday 14 February.  The work is now nearing completion and adds a wonderful further dimension to our facilities.  Again this support shows what can be achieved when come together for the greater good of the club.    CONGRATULATIONS: Best wishes to Johnny Buckley and Annie McMonagle on their recent engagement and congratulations to both Brosna and Ardfert on their All Ireland Club successes at Croke Park.  FIRIES BALLYHAR Lotto:  11, 16, 23, 26, No winner 30 euro Mairead McMahon Castlefarm, Mary Galway c/o Frank, Jerry O'Sullivan c/o Airport, Bridie and Bobbie c/o Bridie, Mary O'Leary Ballyhar.  Seniors Firies were defeated by Kenmare by 3.12 to 2.7 in the 1st round of the East Kerry League. Next fixture is against Scartaglin in Farranfore on Sunday at 12 o'clock.  Minors Firies open their County League campaign with a home fixture against Annascaul/Lispole on Saturday at 4pm  Membership is now due The rates remain the same as last year. Adult €35 Juvenile €15 Family €80 and Senior player €55. Foilmore  The Foilmore GAA annual membership will be collected over the coming weeks.  Foilmore GAA Club would like to thank all our members for their ongoing support. FOSSA LOTTO: Numbers drawn were 7, 13, 14, 24. There was no Jackpot winner and next weeks Jackpot will be €8,700. The €40 consolation prize winners were Ian Trant c/o Sewells Pharmacy, Daniel Coffey Dromin, Denise Myers Barleymount West, John Cronin Knocklebade and Geraldine Murphy. Tickets are on sale at The Golden Nuggett Bar, The Castlerosse Leisure Centre, The Travel Inn, The Old Killarney Inn, Foley's Spar Shop, The Laurels Bar and Committee members. Next draw takes place on Sunday night 22nd February at 11pm in the Golden Nuggett.  Minors - Our minor team begin their County League campaign this Saturday 21st February when they play Brosna/Knocknagoshel in Brosna at 4pm, all support welcome.  Seniors - Our senior team travelled to Scartaglin on Sunday morning to play their opening East Kerry league game, Fossa lined out with a vastly depleted team with up to 16 players missing but however they fielded a team of mostly minor and U-21 players. Scartaglin proved much too strong on this occasion and ran out easy winners in the end on a scoreline of 2-13 to 0-3. Great credit to the Fossa players who played their heart out and gave it their all in heavy underfoot conditions, the one positive that came out of this match is that the club has to field a Junior team this year in order to give all these young players football over the summer, we obviously have the numbers and we cannot afford to leave these young players slip away due to a lack of game time and competition. We will now play Kenmare in Fossa on Sunday next 22nd February at 12 noon.  Rhyno Quality Feeds Senior County League Div 4: Fossa played hosts to Glenflesk last Sunday morning in the Div 4, Rhyno Quality Feeds Senior County League.  Fossa started well and we had three points by Julie Cronin, Erica McGlynn and Clodagh Fitzgerald notched up within the first 10 minutes. Glenflesk did not give up and our three backs of Niamh O Sullivan, Fay O Donoghue and Katie Talbot had to defend well to keep our opponents at bay. Corah McGlynn was on hand to make numerous saves and kept the rivals score down. Fossa passed the ball well and we gained 3 goals in quick sucession, two from Julie Cronin and one from Marie Foran, this had the Fossa girls firmly in control. Amy Moriarty, wing back, who had a tremendous game along with Anna O Reilly. Fossa led at half time 3-5 to 0-2. Glenflesk started well in the second half, but Fossa had more strength in their forwards. Lauren Rintoul as always caught every ball that came to her and with Breeda Kelleher and Sarah Doody playing incredible football we soon closed out the game on a score line of 4 -14 to 1 -3.  GLENBEIGH               GLENCAR Mid-Kerry League 2015: Cromane 0-9 Glenbeigh/Glencar 3-17  Glenbeigh/Glencar opened their 2015 account with an impressive victory against a weak Cromane team, both teams were missing a number of players but it was the div 4 team that struggled the most. This was a big day for three of the Glenbeigh/Glencar players Caolim Teahan, Donal O=92Neill & Joseph Murphy who all made their senor debuts.   Cromane were first on the score board with a point by full forward Emmet Casey who took advantage of a rare mistake by Fergal Griffin, Glenbeigh/Glencar quickly levelled things up with a fine score from Podge Griffin. Cromane went ahead with points from Darren Houlihan & a free from Micheal Shaughnessy, this was to be Cromanes last score of the half as Glenbeigh/Glencar upped their game considerably 2 pts from corner forward Daniel Griffin, three points from centre forward Caolim Teahan, a fisted point from midfielder Colin McGillicuddy and a very fortunate goal by full forward John Joe Quirke leaving the half time score Cromane 0-9 Glenbeigh/Glencar 1-7. It must be said that a poor decision by the referee to black card one of the Cromane players after 15 min did little to help Cromanes cause.   Glenbeigh/Glencar brought in Jason McKenna & Kieran Cahillane for the impressive duo Daniel Griffin & Coalim Teahan. Cromane started the second half much the same as the first with two unanswered frees from corner forward Micheal Shaughnessy, Glenbeigh/Glencar again responded well no more so than second half substitute Jason Mckenna who kicked a fantastic score to steady the ship once more. Cromane battled hard but were restricted to just one score from play from centre back Mikey Houlihan, Glenbeigh/Glencar however moved up a gear and scored another two goals and 9 points to run out easy winners.  Team & scorers: D.O'Neill, K.Doyle, F.Griffin (0-1), D.Murphy, V.Hoare, D.McGilliycuddy, J.Hoare, J.Brosnan, D.O'Sullivan (0-1), C.Teahan (0-3), P.Griffin (0-4), K.Courtney (0-1), JJ.Quirke (1-0), D.Griffin (0-2). Subs: J.McKenna (1-3) for C.Teahan, K.Cahillane (0-2) for D.Griffin, S.Roche for JJ. Quirke, M.O'Sullivan for V.Hoare, J.Murphy for D.Murphy.   Under 14 training will take place Monday from 6 to 7 and Thursday   from 7 to 8 in the Glenbeigh Sports Hall.  Club Membership: Please remember all membership monies will help us develop and maintain Glenbeigh/Glencar GAA for you, your children  and for future generations.  GLENFLESK EAST KERRY SENIOR LEAGUE: The Glenflesk senior team, sponsored by the Jarvey's Rest, drew with Spa in an EK Senior League game played in blustery conditions in Glenflesk on Sunday February 15th. Playing with the benefit of a strong breeze Glenflesk led by 1-9 to 1-4 at half-time, but a couple of second-half Spa goals gave them a slight advantage at the mid-point of the half. Jeff O'Donoghue kicked a last minute free to leave the final score Glenflesk 1-11 Spa 3-5, and bring his personal tally for the day to 10 points (0-4f) which included some brilliant long range scores.  GLENFLESK LOTTO: Glenflesk GAA Lotto draw was held on Sunday the 15th of February 2015, in Spillane's. Jackpot: EUR3,800. Numbers drawn: 3, 5, 10, 22. No Winner. EUR50 EURO DRAW: First draw: Pat Carey, Clonkeen. Seller: Mary Carey. Second draw: Leah Crowley, Coachford, Cork. Third draw: William Leader, Lisbaby. Fourth draw: James O'Mahony, Headford. Next draw will be held on Sunday March 1st in the Corner Bar, Jackpot EUR4,000.  COUNTY MINOR LEAGUE: The Glenflesk minor team are scheduled to open their county league campaign against Keel on this Saturday February 21st at 4pm in Glenflesk.  SCÓR SINSEAR: The very best of luck to the Glenflesk team who travel to Brosna this Saturday night February 21st for the county finals of Senior Scór. Glenflesk will take part in the Rince Foirne, Ballad Group, Solo Singing and Instrumental Music. Go n-éirí libh!  GLENFLESK LADIES FOOTBALL: U16 and Senior ladies training continues on Friday evenings at 7.30 in Barraduff field. The U14 girls are training on Sunday mornings from 12 to 1 in Glenflesk. Please bring runners and towel/exercise mat for indoor training also boots for outdoor work.  KEEL Table Quiz: Keel GAA will be holding their annual Table Quiz on Friday 20th February at 8.30pm in the Anvil Bar . Spot prizes  on the night. Please come and support  Keel GAA Lotto - There was no winner of this weeks Lotto. Numbers drawn were 5, 16, 18 and 21. €50 winner was Eileen Murphy, c/o Murphys Bar. €25 winners were Lily Mai Clifford, Corkaboy, Tommy Flaherty, Shanakeale, Tanya Palmer, Aughils and Sean Foley, Lisardboula. Next weeks Lotto is worth €6,400 and the draw will be held in the Anvil bar on Sunday 22nd February  Mid Kerry League: Keel lost to Milltown\Castlemaine 1-10 to 2-11in the opening round. Keel play Glenbeigh\Glencar this Sunday 22nd February at 2pm in Keel  Minor County League - Keel Listry travel to Glenflesk on Saturday 21st February at 4pm.  Keel GAA Membership. The club has a number of different membership options for 2015. This year all adult members will receive a membership card. General Member €30, Couples €50. Family €60, Senior Player €60 and Juvenile Player €15. Membership can be paid to Ian Foley Sr or Tommy Flaherty  KENMARE East Kerry League: Kenmare 3-12 Firies 2-7  Second game, second win and the banter on the sidelong wasn't bad either! Like last week a good team performance, with Colm Dan in midfield very consistent over the hour and with the management trying out players it is good to see a big score on the board again. The first half was tight, 1-5 to 0-2 at the break in our favour. Colm Dan caught some great ball and took a point on 17 minutes and it was his catch and pass that set up Mark Crowley for a point on 25 minutes. Between those two scores Sean O'Leary nabbed a green flag (a goal last week also) and Rory O'Sullivan was getting an awful lot of work done to keep us on the front foot.  With ten minutes gone in the second half this game looked like being a rout. Paul O'Connor had two early points before Dean Cassidy spun in on goal and jit the net. On 38 minutes a quick O'Connor pass put Tarmac in and he also made no mistake and when Mark Crowley added a point we were seemingly coasting…  Back came Firies with their centre-forward in particular making wreck, with ten minutes left there were only four points between the sides but points from Dean Cassidy, a brace from Paul O'Connor and fittingly, a Colm Dan effort, we ran out eight point winners.  Kenmare: Ciaran Fitzgibbon; Brian Clifford, Ritchie O'Sullivan, Aidan Quinlan; David Crowley, Sean O'Leary (1-1), Rob Hodnett; Colm Dan O'Sullivan (0-2), Shane Dalton; Rory O'Sullivan, Mark Crowley (0-4, 1fr), Shane O'Sullivan (1-0); Dean Cassidy (1-1), Paul O'Connor (0-4, 0-2fs), Eoin Finnegan. Fionan O'Sullivan, Kevin O'Sullivan.  Bord Na nOg: There will be a table quiz in Foleys on the 27th of February @ 8.30 as a fundraiser for the underage structure in the club. A table of four costs €40 please support!  LAUNE RANGERS  LOTTO: Lotto results for Sunday 8th February. There was no winner of the €3,400 jackpot. The numbers drawn were 05 - 12 - 20 - 28. The Consolation Prizes were won by the following: €100 Helen O'Neill, sold by Kerry; €50 Mary O'Donoghue, Cahirciveen, sold by Pat Foley. Credit Union Vouchers €25: Catherine Woods, standing order; Michael Flynn, standing order. Lotto results for Sunday 15th February. There was no winner of the €3,600 jackpot. The numbers drawn were 10 - 16 - 17 - 25. The Consolation Prizes were won by the following: €100 Dolores Johnston, standing order; €50 Donal Murphy, standing order. Credit Union Vouchers €25: Eugene Cotter,standing order; Chris Clifford, sold by Kerry. Next week's jackpot will be €3,800.  SENIOR SEASON: Our Senior Men began their 2015 season on Sunday with a visit to Beaufort in the Mid Kerry League. Rangers started brightly, and found themselves ahead by 0-4 to 0-2 on the quarter mark - Com O'Shea (2 frees), Kevin Flynn & Aidan Cox for Rangers with Beaufort's scores from Niall O'Connor & Liam Carey. Colm O'Shea added another free for Rangers but Beaufort then took full control in the second quarter. Goals from Padraig O'Sullivan, Fergal Hallissey & Kevin O'Brien along with points from Hallissey, O'Brien (free) and Liam Carey gave the home side a commanding lead (3-5 to 0-7) approaching Half Time.  Beaufort continued their fine start to the season in the 2nd half. Points from Francis Courtney (2, 1f), Kevin O'Brien & Sean Courtney put the home side 3-9 to 0-7 ahead with a quarter remaining. It didn't improve for Rangers in the closing stages. Jason Foley found the net again for the home side and points from Ger Hartnett & Fergal Hallissey (2) completed the rout. Rangers' only scores in the second half came from points by John O'Shea (free) and Shane O'Connor to put the final score at; Beaufort 4-12, Laune Rangers 0-9.  Our Senior Ladies travelled to Rathmore in the Round 1 of the County League and came out on top 5-11 to 1-04 in Laune Rangers' favour. Meadhbh Johnston and Amy Foley stood out for Laune Rangers in a game where all Kerry players played well for the visitors - a good all round team performance for the opening round of the league  UNDER 14: Laune Rangers under 14's played their first match of the season on Sunday last, when they faced Na Gaeil in Cloon. While they started slowly and went behind by 3-6 to 0-2 in the  first quarter, they responded like true warriors and won the contest in all corners of the field.  James Hurley, Sean Cleary and Cormac Doyle to name but a few outstanding performances.  SCOR NA BPAISTÍ: The Laune Rangers Qualifying Round for this year's Scór na bPáistí will be held in the Club Rooms, J. P. O'Sullivan Park on Friday 20th February at 7.30pm. This is open to children attending Primary School in the Laune Rangers area of the Parish. More information is available from Mary Clifford on 0871278638.  CONDOLENCES: Tuesday, February 3rd, saw the passing of Dan Carey. Dan was a former selector of our 'B' Team & was a lifelong supporter of Laune Rangers & Mid Kerry football. On Wednesday evening Feb 4th, Laune Rangers formed a guard of honour at Dan's removal at Flynn's Funeral Home & accompanied the hearse to Tullig Bridge as the funeral cortége made their way to Star of the Sea Church, Cromane. Ar dheis Dé go raibh a anam.  REGISTRATION: The registration night for our underage players takes place on Friday, February 27th, in our clubrooms in JP O'Sullivan Park at 7pm.  MEMBERSHIP 2015: Laune Rangers is now open to Club Membership for 2015. Subscription fees are as follows: Family €70, Full member €50, OAP €20. These can be paid to Club Registrars Mary Gallagher or Tim Cronin.  LEGION  PRESIDENT: The club are proud and delighted to announce that our new club president is the great Legion stalwart from Muckross, none other than Donie o Meara . A most deserving position for a man that has given so much to the club throughout his life     PITCH BOOKING: With the footballing season looming and all teams getting into full flow with training,it is very important for each team to book their training times and to notify Pat Healy regarding home match fixtures .    DEFIBRILATOR COURSE - Names are now being taken for the next course on the use of the defibrilator which is an invaluable asset for anyone to have, not just on the sporting front but in everyday life . It is advisable to book your place on this course as soon as possible as there are limited places available . To book your place please contact Blaithin Stack, Jimmy Reen, Enda Walsh or Barry Slattery .  AWARDS NIGHT  - Awards night co-ordinator Jerome o Regan informs us that the annual awards night will take place on Friday 13 March . A great night has been planned with all the player of the year awards [senior,junior, ladies and youth] being presented along with the Clubperson of the year and the Hall of Fame award . A special Guest of Honour will be in attendance on the night, a person who will prove hugely popular to everyone .So keep this date in your diary .   KERRY V DUBLIN - Another date for your diary is March 1st when we will host the National league Ladies fixture,Kerry v Dublin at our grounds in Derreen . Our own Alan o Neill is manager of the Kerry ladies this season so please make an effort to come and support Alan and the team,and the fact that the throw-in time is 12.30,why not take in this game before going down to Fitzgeralds Stadium for the Kerry v Dublin mens National league game afterwards     CONGRATULATIONS - The club wishes Robert Osbourne and Jack Hanrahan all the best for their upcoming International tournament as the two were selected to represent Ireland in the International Childrens Games tournament which will take place in Alkmaar in Holland in June . Robert was selected as goalkeeper on the soccer team with Jack gaining selection on the Judo team.  SENIOR EAST KERRY LEAGUE - Seniors opened their Superleague campaign with a win over Gneeveguilla in Direen.A game worthwhile for the Senior debuts of Rob Leen,Darragh Doherty, Alan Moriarty,Kyle and Bryan Griffin.David Mc Carthy figured well while Ciaran O Grady and Sgt Denis Sheahan  If Legion started the opening half in whirlwind fashion, it was Gneeveguilla who did the same in the second period as they rattled off four unanswered points, two from frees and two from play before Alan Moriarty found the net for Legion to restore their lead, a lead that they held onto until the final whistle but only just, as eventhough Sean Mc Carthy and Twomey raised more white flags to give the homeside a four point cushion entering the final few minutes, some great determination by Gneeveguilla saw them apply fierce pressure and this pressure was rewarded with a late goal to set up an exciting fianle but Legion held on to win by the bare minimum . Final score Legion 1-13 Gneeveguilla 2-09   U21 EAST KERRY - Same two teams, same pitch,quite a few same players, different result. Gneeveguilla exacted some revenge on the Legion in this u21 East Kerry Div 2 semi final as they reversed the scoreline of the previous evenings encounter between the same two clubs at senior level . Throughout the entire match, there was very little between theses sides as at any stage in this fixture was there ever more than a couple of points separating the teams . At the short whistle Gneeveguilla led by two points 0-07 v 0-05 Eamon Herlihy and Cornelius Buckley to the fore for Gneeveguilla while Rob Leen,Cathal Sheahan and Jack o Neill were prominent for Legion along with some fine long distance free taking by midfielder Donal Lyne . The second half was where most of the action came from and when Conor Culloty goalled for Legion, it looked like the town side might jut shade it but Gneeveguilla had other ideas and when Herlihy scored a long range point it seemed to lift the Gneeveguilla team and this was quickly followed by a Cornelius Buckley goal with the visitors holding on for a single point victory . Final score Legion 1-10 v Gneeveguilla 1-11     STRICTLY COME DANCING - Congratulations to Mikey Bernard and Grainne o Sullivan who won last weeks Strictly Come Dancing     SIGERSON CUP - Best wishes to Shaun Keane and Podge o Connor as UCC play IT Carlow this weekend in the semi final of the Sigerson Cup    ALL IRELAND TITLES - Well done to Brosna and Ardfert on bringing home the Junior and Intermediate titles respectiveley and also to Spa and the other Kerry clubs that brought back four All Ireland Scor titles and a big congrats to Conor Keane and the Kerry u21 team that won the Hastings Cup Plate competition last Saturday    SYMPATHY - The club sends its sincere condolensces to the Herlihy family,Spa on the death of Joan . Our sympathies to her husband Dave and her children Laura and Paul. Ar Dheis De go raibh a Anam Dilis.    LOTTO - No Jackpot winner. Numbers drawn 6, 10, 15, 20  Lucky dip drawn from match x3 Christine Cronin, Thomas Moriarty, James Moore,Mossie Pierse,Geraldine Templeman LISTRY Listry Weekly Lotto Results Sunday 15th February, 2015. Winning Numbers 7, 8, 12, 16 Jackpot €3,200 Not Won  1x€100 Kay O'Connor  2x€50 Kieran Murphy, Rockfield;  Emer O'Mahony, Ballyhar    2x€25 Janelle O'Sullivan, Listry;  Maura Kennedy, Ballymalis    Draw Entrant Aoran Burke  Jackpot next week Sunday 22nd February €3,350    East Kerry Super League 2015 Division 1 Round 3 Sunday, 22nd February, at 12 o'clock Listry v Rathmore Venue: Listry    East Kerry Super League 2015 Division 1 Round 2 Result Listry 0-7 Currow 0-10    Final Night of GMHD Insurances Juvenile Classic - The club is having a fundraiser race at Kingdom Greyhound Stadium. This will take place on Friday, 6th March. First Prize €300 worth of vouchers for the holder of the ticket with the winning combination. Tickets are €10 each and are available from the club. Spot prizes on the night.   MILLTOWN                 CASTLEMAINE LOTTO: Our Lotto Jackpot has now reached €11,600. Don't miss out on the chance to win this massive Prize for just €2 entry. Get your tickets in local shops and bars.   There was no winner of last weeks lotto, the numbers drawn where 03,17,22,27. Consolation prizes where  €50 Carmel O'Connro, Glencar €50 Brian Doolan, Killarney  €25 Frances Browne, Carragh lake  €25 Karen Bruton, Bridgefield   €25 Aoife McAuliffe, Kilcolman  €25 Nancy Coffey, Milltown   The next draw will take place on the 27th of February in Jack Duggans Bar   Membership - New Club Membership Rates  Family (2 adults and all children under 18) €80   Two Adults also €80  One Adult €50 Student/OAP €25 U8s and u6s are free.  Membership entitles you to free entry to all Mid Kerry league and County League games worth at least €40. Access to club tickets for Kerry matches.   Access to draw for Munster & All Ireland Final tickets when Kerry are involved.  Voting rights at club AGM  10% discount at Vincent Murphy sports (Club kit supplier)    All players must be members for insurance purposes. Our Bord Na Nog  will have a registration night during the month of March. Please attend this night to receive important information and to registers players.    Minors: Round 1 of the minor county league gets under way on the 21st of Febuary with Milltown/Castlemaine v Gneeveguilla    Seniors: Mid Kerry Senior Football League: Round 1 Result: Milltown/Castlemaine 2-11 Keel 1-10. The next fixture is Laune rangers away 22nd Feb at 2pm Piarsaigh na           Dromoda         Ceiliuradh: The annual Piarsaigh na Dromoda dinner dance will be held in the Waterville Lake Hotel on Friday, February 27th. Music by the Singing Jarvey.Tickets available from committee members and usual sellers. All welcome.    Sraith Sinsir Chiarrai Theas: Piarsaigh na Dromoda i gcoinne Na Rinn Airde, An Satharn, 21u Feabhra.    Campai Cul: Beidh Campa Cul C.L.G. ar siul ag Piarsaigh na Dromoda idir an 29u Meitheamh agus an 3u Iuil.     Ballraiocht: New membership rates available up until March 31st 2015- Players; Seniors €50, Minors €25,Non-Players €30, Couples €50. Bi cinnte siniu suas. RATHMORE Rathmore Ladies Football: The Agm of the Rathmore Ladies football club was held in Teach Iosgain last Friday night. Officers elected on the night were chairperson Marie O Sullivan, Vice Chairperson Nora O Connor, Secretary Stephanie Brosnan, Treasurer Sheila Rahilly, Pro Kathleen Sheehan, Child Protection Officer Emma Cremin. Also on the night the under 12 girls received their medals for winning the East Kerry Div 1 championship. The most improved player award was presented to Theresa Downey. The Under 10 girls were also presented medals on the night. Medals were presented by the 4 girls who won all Ireland medals with the Kerry Under 14 team, Aoife Callaghan, Brid Ryan,Sinead Warren and Rachel Fitzgerald.    RENARD  GAA SOCIAL: Awonderful night to celebrate our three ALL IRELAND stars,Killian,Brian and Robert was held in the Ring of Kerry hotel on February 13 .A large attendance of 160 players and supporters were present .Jeremiah O Shea vice chairperson of the County Board and Kevin Kelly Club chairman spoke eloquently of the clubs achievements to date .A slide show of club and football events from 2014 was shown .An action photograph of the three ALL IRELAND stars was presented to Killian,Brian and Robert .Club awards were presented as follows,senior player of the year Dermot O Sullivan .Minor player of the year Alan Curran .Club person of the year was presented to Nuala McDaid on behalf of the Renard Development Group in recognition of their work re the Renard book publication .An enjoyable night of musical entertainment was provided by the Moorings Ceili band and Eddie Corcorans Disco .Many thanks to the staff of the Ring of Kerry hotel for the lovely meal and efficient service .Many thanks to the players,volunteers,club officers and sponsors for their unwaning time,commitment and support throughout the years .   GAA CUL CAMPS: The camps will be held in Renard between July 27 and July 31 2015 .  Club membership fees: Membership fees are due to be paid by March 31 .payable to Doreeen O neill 0863066941 and Nuala McDaid 0876993728 .Payment of fees are necessary to ensure insurance cover .  SENIOR SOUTH KERRY LEAGUE: Renard and Waterville met in the second round of the South Kerry leagueat Renard on Sunday February15,in a hard fought encounter .Waterville led at half time by two points and went on to win by a two point margin .Final score Waterville 2-10 Renard 3-05 . Renard seniors play Dromid in Renard this weekend .  Renard/St Marys play Kilcummin minors in Con Keating park this weekend,  SKELLIGS RANGERS GAA LOTTO RESULTS: Sunday, 15th February 2015. Numbers drawn: 05, 08, 16, 19   €30 Bridget O'Shea, Harbour View, Portmagee  €20 Noel Riordon, The Village Portmagee  €20 Ciaran Smith, The Glen   Next week's jackpot Sunday, 22nd February 2015 €2,550.00   Next Week Sellers: Padraig O'Sullivan and Aideen Martin SNEEM Sneem GAA lotto result from 16/2/2015: Numbers drawn: 7,13,24,26 No Winner.  €40 consolation winners x 4: Brid Murphy, Moularostig, Sneem;  Darragh Keogh, South Square Sneem; Delcan & Valerie Magee, Direenauliffe Sneem;  Maureen Smith, Drimnamore Sneem  Next Draw Sunday 23rd Feb 2015 in Blue Bull  Jackpot €2,650  SOUTHERN GAELS Co. League: Our first county league game against Inbhear Sceine was on Sunday in Derrynane. They got off to a great start with points from Shannon O Shea and Lisa O Sullivan. The defence worked very hard with captain Cecilia O Sullivan mopping up all the breaking ball in the back line. Megan O Connell and Bernie Cronin were winning alot of ball around the middle and with Anna Galvin providing the link to the forwards it helped to send the girls in at half time on a scoreline of 0.09 to 0.01. Inbhear Sceine started to pick up some good scores and were putting some pressure on the girls until Megan O Connell got a well worked goal ending the game on a score of 1.14 to 0.08. Team : Saidbh Fitzgerald- Amy Fitzgerald- Cecilia O Sullivan- Clodagh Quinlan- Caroline Kelly- Sinead Clifford- Megan O Connell ( 1.02 )- Bernie Cronin (. 01 )- Anna Galvin (. 03 )- Shannon O Shea(. 02)- Lisa O Sullivan (.01 )- Mary Cronin (. 03 )- Deirdre Corridan (. 03 ) subs: Rachel Galvin- Saoirse Kirby. Well done girls. Thanks to the Derrynane club for the use oftheir facilities. The Kerry seniors are playing Laois in Castleisland in Sunday- good luck girls. SPA Coiste na nOg Registration continues next Friday Feb 20th night 6.30-7.30pm.   Training Schedule: U6/U8 TBC after registration; U10 Boys Fri 7-8; U12 Boys Fri 6-7; U14 boys Fri 8-9; U16 Boys Sunday 10-11am.   Ladies Football  U6/U8 and U10 girls continue to train indoors Wednesday evening 5-6. Theres a break this week 18th due to midterm but will continue Wednesday 25th with Aidan and Louise. Anyone who hasn't registered yet can do so with the coaches.   U12 Girls Training every Sunday morning 11-12.   Senior Ladies - Open their League campaign next Sunday 22nd @12noon away to Kilcummin.  Round 2 is away to Currow March 8th @12noon.  The ladies would like to send our condolences to senior player Laura Herlihy on the untimely death of her mother Joan. May she rest in peace.   Senior East Kerry Super League Round 2: Glenflesk 1-11, Spa 3-5.  Spa had their 2nd outing of the year against Glenflesk on Sunday morning. This game was played in very windy conditions in Glenflesk and turned out to be a "game of two halves". Glenflesk played with the wind the first half and used the wind very well with some outstanding long range points from Jeff O Donoghue. Spa had to work really hard to get the ball up the field against this strong wind and many of our attacks broke down. Craig Hickey managed to kick 3 points from frees to keep us in touch for the first 20 minutes. Ryan Carroll scored a fine point in the 25th minute to bring Spa within 5 points. In the 27th minute Lee O Donoghue struck for a super goal for Glenflesk and it looked like Spa were in big trouble. However the heads didn't drop and in the 29th minute John Falvey fisted the ball into the net after a great cross from Ryan O Carroll. This left the score at half time at 1-4 for Spa, 1 -9 for Glenflesk.  With the strong wind at our back Spa started the second half very well and in the 3rd minute Craig Hickey landed a long ball into the goalmouth and Rory O Riordan finished the breaking ball to the net. Scores were scarce from here on with nothing being scored by either side until the 15th minute when Spa struck for another goal, Ryan O Carroll providing the finish on this occasion. Glenflesk scored their first point of the second half when Jeff O Donoghue finished off a fine passing move. Spa scored again in the 23rd minute with a lovely point from the boot of Rory O Riordan. Spa were now up by 1 point but failed to add to this lead over the last 7 minutes. On the stroke of full time Glenflesk got a free on the 20 meter line and Jeff O Donoghue made no mistake .   The game finished Spa 3-5, Glenflesk 1-11.  Minor Co. League Upcoming Fixtures @4pm   Rd 1 21st Feb home to Dingle  Rd 2 7th March Away to Austin Stacks  Rd 3 14th March Home to Dr. Crokes  Scór - Scór na nÓg Double All Ireland Champions. What a weekend for the club and Kerry with all 4 teams that represented Munster came away from City West Hotel with All Ireland glory. History was made once again in the Club as these are the first teams to win in these both Quiz and Figure Dancing. Last year was the first with Recitation and Set Dancing. What a huge accomplishment for our Club with 4 All Ireland titles in two years.   The quiz team started the winning streak in the morning in a closely contested battle winning by 2 points with a great result 68. The winning team Thomas Fleming, James Lynch, Michael Aherne and Niamh Clifford put in long hours along with excellent coaches Seamus Clifford and Eileen Aherne. Our Figure dancers were up first in the afternoon, danced brilliantly and were clear winners in this competition. When the results were announced the crowd erupted with huge applause and the excitement was electrifying. The team consisted of Aine Brosnan, Katie Cronin, Megann Cronin, Ava O Sullivan, Leah Moynihan, Rachel Moynihan, Sarah Randles and Lamia Switzer. Coaches Mairead Mangan and Maureen Hegarty Vogels who are no strangers to All Ireland Glory as they hold in combination 17 All Scor Sinear medals in both set and figure. So its no surprise, success breathes success and have passed on their expertise to the next generation of our young dancers. All this success in Scor is the driving force in the form of Sheila McCarthy who's our Scor Officer in her 12th year in this position. She organises all groups Paisti, Og and Sinsear with precision and untold experience with every level. Sheila along with her committee are owed a huge Bula Bos and we hope that they continue for many more years in this capacity. A homecoming was awaiting the winning teams in Spa with a Bonfire and were welcomed by our own member Mayor of Killarney, John Joe Culloty and his wife Mary. Ger Mangan, Chairman and John O Donoghue Chairman, Coiste na nOg congratulated all involved and thanked the huge crowd that turned up in the Clubhouse. Sheila also congratulated the other Kerry Champions from Lisople (solo singing) and Ardfert (music). Prionnsias O Chathasaigh who won All Ireland title in Solo singing has Spa connections with his mother Margaret Fitzgerald from Tiernaboul. A terrific weekend for the Club and Mile buiochas to all involved.   SKELLIG RANGERS Commiserations to Skellig Rangers Novelty group who were unsuccessful in the All Ireland final during the weekend. Thanks to Gearoid Moran and Gloria O' Driscoll and also Bernard Casey for their hard work and commitment who were their mentors.  Fixture: Skellig Rangers seniors play Sneem/Derrynane in the second round of the South Kerry league fixed for this weekend date and time TBC. See local posters or visit our Facebook page for details.  Our minors begin their campaign with Valentia where they will play Cromane/Glenbeigh/Glencar at home this weekend with date and time TBC too. Good luck to them!  History Fact of the week: 6 years ago last weekend- Skellig Rangers defeated English side John Mitchels of Liverpool in the All-Ireland Junior Championship in Croke Park. A historic and great day for our club! TEMPLENOE Comortas PAidi Ó Sé - The Templenoe team who lost narrowly in the Junior final of the Comortas Plca2idi Ó Sé in 2014, are back for another attempt this year.  There are six teams playing in the Junior competition and it is divided into two groups. Templenoe have Garryowen GAA of London and Madrid Harps from Spain.  Templenoe's fixtures are below, and the group toppers will play the final on Sunday  Sat 21st Feb: Templenoe V Garryowen GAA, London, Throw in at 12:00pm in Lispole  Sat 21st Feb: Templenoe V Madrid Harps, Spain, Throw in at 1:30pm in Annascaul  Thade Morley Memorial Cup: Templenoe 0-14, St Marys 1-06  Templenoe enjoyed a good victory over St Marys in the 2nd round of the South Kerry League. This match also doubled up as the Thade Morley Memorial Cup.  Templenoe played the better football in the first half, and through some great scoring from full forward Teddy Doyle went in at half time as comfortable leaders, Templenoe 0-08, St Marys 0-02.  Templenoe continued to lead the way after the interval, and were eleven points ahead before a revival of St Marys for the last ten minutes reduced the home sides lead.  Final Score Templenoe 0-14, St Marys 1-06  Templenoe Scorers: Teddy Doyle 0-10, Shane Cremin 0-01, Martin Reilly 0-01, Patrick Palmer 0-01  Johnny O'Sullivan Myles Memorial Cup: In The opening match, the Templenoe U14's beat the Kilgarvan / Tuosist U14's to win the Johnny O'Sullivan Myles Cup on a score of Templenoe 4-17, Kilgarvan / Tuosist 4-11  Club Membership: The Templenoe GAA Club membership is now due for 2015. Please contact Sean Finnegan or Aisling Harrington to pay.  Adults €50, Juveniles €10  KERRY GAA Cúl Camps 2015: The Kerry GAA Cúl Camp will be held in Templenoe GAA Grounds between July 13 to July 17 this year.? WATERVILLE  This game was your typical first game of the year with some lovely moves and some questionable defending by both teams.To be fair Waterville were by far the better team and were cruising to a win in the second half but for Renard's spirited fightback twice through goals the third to bring it within 2 points with a few minutes left.  My man of the match Steven Dwyer ended the day with a personal tally of 1-6 from the 2-10 and was unmarkable for large amounts of time in the second half especially,his foot passing and scoring was a joy to watch in this first match of the year. Waterville's remaining scores came from 2 lovely points from Eoin Sullivan (one placed ball from around the 40) who did well for his first game in a senior jersey in a while,1 raiding point from the centre back Odhran o Mahony who also was a returnee to the first team and and the remaining 1-1 was for our first scorer of the new year in the mighty Sam Dwyer, tho small in height we expect a big year from this man as his goal showed he really has his father's Mike eye for goal when bursting through and riffling the roof of the net early in the game.  Waterville will be happy to get off to a win and had a lot of positives from the game, but also have a lot of work to get to where there expectation levels are for the year ahead.  Our next assignment is next weekend against the South Kerry holder St Marys in Cahirciveen.  The Waterville club and its members along with the community would like to congratulate Brosna and Ardfert on there All Ireland victories. Kerryman 
