middle east
{ CHRIS GLENNON in Jerusalem 
    January 20 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/taoiseach-to-play-part-in-mid-east-drive-for-peace-agreement-26162987.html }
TAOISEACH Bertie Ahern last night was handed an international peace mission. Israeli premier Benjamin Netanyahu asked him to carry a special message to Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.He wants the Taoiseach to tell Mr Arafat that he is prepared to keep open a line of communication and continue negotiations on a Middle East pact despite the May 17 general election in Israel. In unusually long private talks that went on for more than 90 minutes, Mr Netanyahu told the Taoiseach he was still hopeful a settlement could be reached sooner rather than later. Mr Ahern and his Israeli counterpart spent some time discussing the Good Friday Agreement. Over dinner in Jerusalem later, the Taoiseach took his host through all the details of the pact. Mr Ahern told reporters that he understood the difficulties in getting a deal in the Middle East but he was satisfied that the Israeli leader ``wasn't giving a hard-line message''. The Israelis have a deep knowledge of how the Good Friday deal was negotiated and they are drawing on it to achieve a Middle East settlement. Mr Netanyahu greeted the Taoiseach at his office in Jerusalem and in a news conference said that as soon as Palestine completed its obligations under the Wye agreement Israel would carry out its part of the deal. ``We want to move forward,'' the Israeli PM said. He told Mr Ahern he was aware of the great efforts at quelling ``the terror in your land''. It was something he had watched with admiration, Mr Netanyahu added. On a four-day visit to the Middle East, the Taoiseach today travels to Gaza for talks with Mr Arafat whom he first met at an EU Council meeting last year. He is ensuring he maintains an even-handed approach in meeting leaders from both sides of the Middle East conflict. However, that does not mean that Israeli authorities are making things easy for his schedule. On the way from Beirut to Jerusalem the Government jet had to take a flight path that meant it could not go straight to Israel but had to travel into Cypriot air space before executing a U-turn back to Israel.  When he leaves to go to Gaza the jet will have to travel into Egyptian air space before taking a loop into Gaza. 
