middle east
{ Damian Stack 
    September 28 2018 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/sport/gaa/murphy-shows-real-determination-37354890.html }
Sometimes before these big finals a representative of the County Board will pop his or her head into the press box and ask the assembled ink-stained hacks to choose the man of the match. Once asked it informs how we view the match. You pay that little bit more attention to who's doing what on an individual basis. At various points somebody will pipe up to say Player X is doing well or that Player Y has really come into his own in the second half. You do so with the understanding that eventually a decision will have to be made. Depending on the day there can be quite a robust debate to be had. Not everybody sees things the same way and that's not a criticism, just a fact of life. With about ten minutes to go in the game on Sunday thoughts and conversation turned to the man of the match award. The game was run and there was plenty of time to consider and grapple with the decision. Paul O'Shea would have been in the running had he not blotted his copy book given how well he was doing in the first half - the mark he won and the point he kicked on nine minutes summed up the Kilcummin man's contribution. Darragh Lyne's effort in the absence of his midfield colleague was just as noteworthy. He put in a trojan shift out around the middle third of the pitch and it was a performance capped by a marvellous goal, slotted in soccer-style. At the back, meanwhile, Owen Fitzgerald was his typical efficient self. It was centre-back Dan Murphy, however, who stood out most of all in that department. He was consistently excellent throughout the match. There's something rugged about the Rathmore man that just warms the cockles. He plays like a man much more mature than his years - an old head on young shoulders. It helps that he's a big guy, with great hands and vision. If there was any doubt about who the man of the match should be as our deliberations were wrapping up - and there wasn't much, despite Lyne's sensational second half - the Rathmore man made two brilliant interceptions to make our minds up for us. With St Kierans pushing for a consolation goal, Murphy was defiance itself. Like a rugby back making a break, he stepped forward out of his line and claimed a flat pass before launching a break down the other end. He then did something very similar moments later, swooping in and serving through a thicket of green and white jerseys to reclaim possession. Those are the moments that will lift a crowd and a team and demoralise the opposition. Those are the moments Dan Murphy is capable of. East Kerry's victory on Sunday was based as much upon the performances of men like Murphy and Fitzgerald as it was on guys like Patrick D'Arcy (excellent too) and David Dineen (who helped himself to seven points). There was a miserliness to the East Kerry defence. You might put down St Kierans first half tally of just four points to the conditions - and they did kick four wides and dropped another short - but there was more to it than that. When St Kierans looked on the cusp of a goal on fifteen minutes - which would have levelled the game at that stage - who was there to clear it off the line? Who else but Dan Murphy. Then in the second half with the breeze at their backs St Kierans found the East Kerry rearguard just as difficult to break down. They managed five second half scores - just one more than their first half total despite having an extra man on the pitch for the entire half. For the sake of the game as a competitive proposition it's probably just as well that East Kerry didn't have their full complement for the second half. Had East Kerry been able to replicate their dominance at kick-out time in the first half in the second then St Kierans would have been in real trouble. The Saints, of course, wouldn't have near the same pick as East Kerry would. To reach the final at all was an achievement. Their biggest problem was they were stretched a little thin. They pushed Seán Horan forward from the off - he seemed to play at wing-forward for the most part - while brother Eddie operated in and around the middle third where he was selected. Then Paul Walsh seemed caught a little between too stools. He started at full-forward, moved to centre-forward during the first half to try and get on some ball and in the second half seemed to operate somewhere in between both positions. All three showed flashes of what they're capable of, but against a team of East Kerry's depth of quality it was always going to be difficult for Micheál Cahill's side. The one thing that really hamstrung them in the second half was their discipline. By the end of the match they ended up giving away almost twice as many frees to their opponents as their opponents gave to them. That was a real killer to whatever hopes they had of getting back into the game in the second half. In the end though you've got to say that the better team won. East Kerry were every inch worthy champions. Well-coached, well-drilled and yet with enough initiative to play off the cuff, they were a joy to watch. It's just a shame that the final as an event didn't really catch fire. Despite a strong attendance, a fine day and a brilliant playing surface, this final was never the type of contest we wanted it to be. No fault East Kerry there and no fault St Kierans either. East Kerry are underage behemoths at the moment and show no signs of letting up any time soon. Three in a row could easily lead to four in-a-row. These are indeed good times for anybody involved in football in East Kerry. Kerryman 
