middle east
{ Damian Stack 
    November 09 2019 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/sport/gaa/aiming-for-the-jackpot-38665341.html }
It's got to be a little bit of a strange one for him. Practically everywhere he looks in that dressing room he sees footballers with medals spilling out their pockets. When he turns his own pockets inside out, however, what does he find? Nothing. Nada. Not a thing. For a man who's given trojan service to the East Kerry cause over the years that feels a little incongruous, a little unfair even, that he's got nothing (so far) to show for it. For the man himself, it just is what it is. That's what comes with arriving on the scene a handful of years before a golden generation. At twenty eight years of age Jack Sherwood is not exactly an old-stager by any manner of means. Compared to the guys he's sharing a dressing room with, though, he's amongst the senior pros. Of the starting fifteen from the semi-final himself and James Devane are about the only two to feature from outside of East Kerry's golden generation. These are guys who remember what it was like in the bad-old days, those lean times without much hope of pushing on and establishing themselves as a real force in the championship. A time when even a step forward was accompanied quickly by a step back. "I was just talking with Mike Foley there before we met tonight," Sherwood says. "We were going through the team of 2010 and then maybe 12, 13, we'd a lot of bad years with a good year in the middle of it in 11, we got to a replay, but when you come together at the start of the year you always thought your best aspirations that you were going to go on and you were going to try win it, but obviously certain years it doesn't work out that way." Even at the start of this year Sherwood must have been wondering if that old familiar pattern would re-establish itself. After all the promise of last year the departure of Kilcummin to the senior ranks carried with it the potential to reset the clock all over again. "I agreed with you this year," he says. "I thought after losing a few Kilcummin players, there was six or seven of them starting last year so that's a huge void to fill, but like I said a lot of young players have come through and there was the likes of Chris [O'Donoghue] and Niall [Donoghue], Pa Warren really stepped up this year because they were subs last year, hardly used and they'd a good run with the Kerry 20s then this year so that brought them on and they fed straight in.  "Obviously it helped us. A lot of fellas talk about how they all played with the minors and the Sem and stuff and that sort of close knit group has fastened us together a small bit better and then there's the likes of myself and [James] Devane just fall into place so it's been okay." Aside from one early - and not altogether unexpected - hiccup against St Brendans first day out, East Kerry are back operating at a level similar to that of last year and beyond it even. Not just in terms of results, there seems to be a greater maturity to how they're playing this year. "It's been very good," Sherwood continues. "I came back in after Kerry finished and the lads had done a lot of work already. They'd done a good few challenges and obviously it's a very young team so it's lively. There's a lot of lads playing first year championship or second year championship so obviously they're mad for road so there's a serious bite to the place.  "So I just kind of fell in there and it took off. We've had a good couple of weeks especially after the bad start against St Brendans. This year it just rolled and rolled and losing to Brendans probably helped us because it brought fellas back down to earth straight away after the Dingle game last year.  "It told us that it wasn't going to be as easy as last year and we kicked on from there. We made two or three changes to the team and we kicked on from there and won every game and I thought we really brought a closeness together and a kind of club mentality, a bit of workmanship to everybody which has helped." A lot of the credit for that club mentality goes to the man on the top of the coaching tree, Jerry O'Sullivan. A fellow Firies club man, Sherwood is more familiar than most with his manager and his methods. "He's very important," Sherwood says. "I played under him since I started with Firies in 2008 with the seniors and I've known him very well. He's a great man to bounce ideas off and he's a good relationship with all the lads. Everybody respects him and he's clued in because he's been involved with Limerick minors, Limerick 20s so he knows the mind frame of these young lads and he can tell them what they need to know and bring them in and get them organised well enough so he understands them.  "He's brilliant at bringing everybody together and fellas like him." To have O'Sullivan back for another crack of the whip and for East Kerry to get the chance to right the wrongs of last year was important motivation for this campaign. The semi-final replay defeat to Dingle last year obviously rankled quite a bit. "Yeah it was a sickener, very upsetting, especially as we'd such a good run," he says. "We'd beaten Dingle fairly comprehensively earlier in the year and you always give yourself a chance and with Kilcummin we'd a strong team, a few experienced lads. We definitely gave ourselves a good chance, probably gave ourselves too much of a chance.  "The first day we left in too many goals, they brought it back from nine or ten points I think it was and then having your mind that if we hadn't done that we probably might have taken them, but it was a killer and it was very tough to take because when you get so close.  "We lost the replay as well in 2011 and they [Mid Kerry] went on to win it maybe that year. So when you get to a semi-final it's always the worst game to lose and after winning last weekend it was just put to bed. We got there and scraped over the line last week anyway which is all we wanted really. "It was [a motivation] and I think we got a lot of motivation from the last two years games. We played Strand Road two or three years ago in Stacks Park and they gave us a nice touch. We'd Dingle again this year who'd beaten us last year and we used that again.  "Brendans then last weekend who'd beaten us already this year so every game rolled in for motivation from recent experiences. That's all we needed. Your own motivation then personally is every fella wants to get to a county senior final.  "It's the biggest medal to win so we obviously want to get there. That's all we need as well." The concession of goals has been something of an issue for this East Kerry side, even this year. Against Austin Stacks in Round 2 they let in three. Since then, however, they've been a much tighter unit. They've been quite impressive as a matter of fact. "We have at times and [then] we've let in a lot of goals already, especially earlier, but in the last two games we've probably been a good bit better," the Firies man concedes. "Niall, Pa Warren and Chris coming in from the 20s have just huge hunger and Dan O'Donoghue then is just solid as a rock and I'm inside in the full back line doing my job inside there happy enough and it's okay.  "We seem to have solidified a lot in the last two games so if we keep the scorelines down, we kept them to I think 1-11 or 1-12 last weekend, which is fairly good, thirteen scores." Sherwood's move to full-back has been a key part of East Kerry's improved defensive performance and mirrors a move made by Kerry boss Peter Keane at the start of the National League campaign. "It's fine to be honest," he says when asked about playing at number 3 (although he has generally been selected at centre-back for the district). "I enjoyed it with Kerry this year to be honest, it's something new, something different and I played the first game this year at centre-back, but then we came up against a few big men in Kieran Donaghy and Tommy [Walsh] and then we rolled onto Paul Geaney so we needed somebody inside there with more size and presence than probably being used to the position so it was no problem, grand." Sherwood's stock has really risen in the last year and-a-half off the back of his performances with East Kerry. So impressive were they in last year's championship that they earned him a re-call to the Kerry senior football panel. Not something Sherwood had been expecting or angling for. "No I'd written all that off to be honest," he admits. "I'd no interest. I thought it was done. I was happy enough to be playing with East Kerry and the club football so it was grand, a different lease of life. You could go and play and take training as it comes and go off then and enjoy yourself as well, but when Peter came calling you can't say no either, so definitely a wise decision to go back and to be given the opportunity to go back I was very very happy with and it was definitely down to East Kerry's run last year as well so very grateful for that too. "For the older players getting a second chance definitely yeah [it's good] and Tommy [Walsh] had a great year as well and I'm close enough to him we used to live together so we were happy enough to go back in and get involved again it was good.  "Hopefully a few more fellas can make good opportunity of the county championship the way it's run off five six weeks in-a-row if you're on a roll of playing well you'll keep going playing well. The back to back games really make fellas shine because their performances are coming together and in a recent frame of mind for the selectors looking." Even as one of the older players - and we use the term advisedly - Sherwood doesn't have very many memories of the last time East Kerry got to this stage of the competition, winning three in a row between 1997 and 1999. "Not a whole lot," he admits. "Most of my memories from back then are probably 1997 because Donal Daly would have been a huge star to me, always has been, so I would have remembered them and off the back of that then you'd have talk of East Kerry games, but I wouldn't have gone to many of them I don't think, you'd just hear about them around the place.  "My memories aren't the best from them, but hopefully we'll have something from next week to freshen it all up for East Kerry people." Finally getting his hands on a medal though is the main motivating factor, even with Firies silverware has been thin on the ground and Sherwood's last experience of a county final isn't one he's keen to experience again any time soon. "We got to a final against Dromid in 2017, which we lost after extra-time and that was a killer," he says. "It was an absolute ball-breaker to be honest, it was very upsetting after losing that because you put in so much time and Firies had never been to that level. You always want to get to it. I think if we won this, after winning a junior championship, it would definitely be the number 1 thing to win because to win a Kerry county championship you're beating the fellas you're after beating up along and it'll always be fresh in the minds.  "You've come through the best players in the county, come through the players you've been with and against all your life and it's definitely a number 1 prize. Bishop Moynihan, everybody wants it and like it's hard to come by.  "East Kerry don't have that many either. I think they've only seven or eight and three of them were won together so it'd be great to try and get it over the line." If anybody deserves it a medal, this long time solider does and on Sunday he might just get to win one at long last. Kerryman 
