middle east
{ Anatole Kaletsky 
    January 04 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/unholy-alliance-against-iran-puts-middle-east-on-brink-of-hell-26278509.html }
MOST people think that the bungled invasion of Iraq, climaxing last week with the bungled execution-assassination of Saddam Hussein, will go down in history as the ultimate symbol of the Bush administration's hubris and incompetence. They should think again. With the dawning of a new year, the Bush-Blair partnership is working on an even more horrendous foreign policy disaster MOST people think that the bungled invasion of Iraq, climaxing last week with the bungled execution-assassination of Saddam Hussein, will go down in history as the ultimate symbol of the Bush administration's hubris and incompetence. They should think again. With the dawning of a new year, the Bush-Blair partnership is working on an even more horrendous foreign policy disaster. What now seems to be in preparation at the White House, with the usual unquestioning support from Downing Street, is a Middle-Eastern equivalent of the Second World War. The trigger for this all-embracing battle would be the formation of a previously unthinkable alliance between America, Israel, Saudi Arabia and Britain, to confront Iran and the continuing rise of the power of Shia Islam. The logical outcome of this 'pinning back' process would be an air strike by Israel against Iran's nuclear facilities, combined with a renewed Israeli military campaign against Hezbollah in Lebanon, aggressive action by American and British soldiers to crush Iraq's Shia militias, while Saudi-backed Sunni terrorists undermined the increasingly precarious pro-Iranian Government in Baghdad. Consider the ominous events that occurred in the Middle East and Washington over the holiday season. The first in this sequence of events was Tony Blair's abrupt announcement that members of the Saudi royal family accused of taking bribes from British defence contractors would be exempted from the application of British law. To risk a confrontation with the Saudi royal family, Mr Blair asserted, would have jeopardised Britain's security interests in Iraq and in the war against terrorism, as well as dashing hopes of progress towards peace between Israel and the Palestinians. This embarrassing announcement by Mr Blair was followed by his Dubai speech, where he called for an "arc of moderation" to "pin back" Iran's advances in the Middle East. The second event, almost simultaneous with Mr Blair's bribery announcement, was the equally unexpected resignation of Saudi Arabia's Ambassador to Washington, Prince Turki al-Faisal, on December 15. Prince Turki has long been a key figure in the Saudi security establishment. Turki was a leading member of a faction in the Saudi royal family that has for months been advocating a more conciliatory response towards the Shia hegemony in Iraq, including an effort to open direct negotiations between America and Iran, as recommended by James Baker's Iraq Study Group. The Turki group's main rivals in the Saudi establishment have by contrast argued for much tougher military action against what they called the "Christian-Shia conspiracy" created by the US toleration of Iranian influence over Iraq. The anti-Iranian rhetoric is gathering strength. Take this example from al-Salafi magazine, quoted in The New York Times: "Iran has become more dangerous than Israel itself." The link between Israel and Iran in Saudi thinking brings us to the third event in this chillingly unfestive sequence: the confrontation over nuclear proliferation between the UN Security Council and Iran. If Iran is now really hell-bent on developing nuclear weapons, Israel has made it abundantly clear that it is equally hell-bent on stopping it - whether by diplomatic or military means. If there is one country in the world more worried than Israel about an Iranian A-bomb, it is Saudi Arabia. And if there are two countries in the world with real influence on the Bush White House, they are Saudi Arabia and Israel. Now both these countries are telling President Bush that he must pull the plug on Iraq's Shia Government, tear up the Baker report, whose most important advice was to open diplomatic channels to Tehran, and prepare to attack Iran, either directly or using the Israelis as a proxy. This is the basis of the unholy alliance between Israel, Saudi Arabia and America, with Mr Blair contributing a few choice soundbites. The anti-Iranian "arc of moderation" may seem like another meaningless Blairism, not nearly as threatening as Mr Bush's "axis of evil". But this soundbite could unleash a disaster on the Middle East, beside which the war in Iraq would be a mere sideshow. (© The Times, London) 
