middle east
{ Richard Spencer  in AmmaN, Samer  al-Atrush in Cairo  and Rob Crilly  in Bethlehem 
    December 20 2009 04:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/middle-east/christians-driven-from-middle-east-26593177.html }
Rima, whose sister was murdered by Saddam Hussein's officers, is going to America. Hani, another Christian, is off to Sweden after surviving a kidnap by a Baghdad militia. Michael Marody, whose cousin was also abducted but did not come back alive, is heading for Australia. War-torn, anarchic Iraq, however, is not the only place in the Middle East where fewer Christians will be celebrating this Christmas. The region that was Christianity's birthplace is witnessing an unprecedented modern-day exodus -- they are victims of radical Islam, the global economic crisis, and new currents of sectarian feeling from Arabs and Jews alike. In Bethlehem, the lights are on for Christmas, but its resident Christians have dwindled from 80 per cent of the population in the post-war years to just 25 per cent today. Tales of misery are repeated both in neighbouring cities and neighbouring lands. In Jerusalem, Orthodox Jews spit on passers-by wearing crucifixes. In the other Palestinian enclave of Gaza, Christian shops have been firebombed. In Egypt, meanwhile, a string of businesses owned by Coptic Christians were burned down in riots in the southern province of Qena last month. Pope Benedict touched on the insecurities of his Middle Eastern flock during a tour of the region earlier this year. "The Catholic community here is deeply touched by the difficulties and uncertainties which affect all the people of the Middle East," he remarked. But while the pontiff's statement sought to avoid finger-pointing, Iraqi Christians like Mr Marody are less hesitant. "We were driven out," he said bluntly. "They bombed our churches. They killed us deliberately so we would leave. It was organised." As many as 600,000 Christians have fled since 2003. Mr Marody, Rima and Hani are all members of the Chaldean Catholic church, whose antiquity is reflected by its use of Aramaic, the ancient language of Christ. Christians have sometimes been targeted by al-Qa'ida-backed extremist groups. Last week, bombers struck two churches in Mosul, killing a baby and wounding at least 40. In similar attacks in July, six simultaneous church bombings killed five people and injured scores more. Christian government officials have also been singled out. Last year, Paulos Faraj Rahho, the Chaldean Archbishop of Mosul, was kidnapped and killed. Those who have studied the long-term decline of the Christian presence in the Middle East insist demographics and economics are the key factors, rather than any kind of sectarian conspiracy. They point out that the smaller number of Christians mean emigration is more noticeable. © Telegraph Sunday Independent 
