middle east
{ CONOR CRUISE O'BRIEN in Washington 
    October 20 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/why-peace-deals-are-now-simply-falling-apart-26107264.html }
LET US consider the present condition of the two ``peace processes'' which have attracted most world attention: That in the Middle East and that in Northern Ireland. Even those who have been most sanguine about the two peace processes will, I think, concede that they are both in serious trouble. Those who have long been pessimistic about both peace processes see them as now on their last legs. The United States-the principal promoter of both processes-may now attempt to revive them, in revised forms, but with little real hope of greater success on the second round than in the one now closing. The two processes are very different in their scope and in the nature of the conditions which they hope to correct. The conflict in the Middle East is inherently much more intractable than the Irish one. Let us first look at the Middle East. Historically the present conflict in the Middle East is less deep-rooted than the Irish one, but also much more inflamed. The Irish one has its roots in the mid-seventeenth century. The Middle Eastern one has its roots in the late nineteenth century. It begins with the return of persecuting anti-semitism to what was then the Russian Empire in 1882, after the assassination of Tsar Alexander II. Before that, most Russian Jews assumed that anti-semitism was essentially a phenomenon of the past and was about to die out under the benign and irreversible progress of the Enlightenment. A minority of Russian Jews precisely those who had been themselves the most enlightened and optimistic then decided there was no future for the Jews in the Russian Empire, and perhaps not anywhere in the world unless they could find a place where they could themselves look after their own security. This was how Zionism began. Most Jews were not Zionists, and at that time almost all Jews who left the Russian Empire went to the United States. Immediately after the First World War, a far more ferocious variety of anti-semitism than anything previously known emerged in Germany. This was the result of a myth deliberately propagated by the German General Staff from 1917 on when it became apparent that military defeat of Germany at the hands of the Allied and Associated Powers had become inevitable. The myth was that of the Dolchstoss, the `Stab in the Back'. The German Army had not been defeated by the Allies at all, according to the myth. The Army had been stabbed in the back by the Jews, through the propagation of defeatist rumours. One of the earliest and most indefatigable disseminators of this propaganda was Adolf Hitler, first as a paid employee of the General Staff and later, will increasing ferocity, on his own account. After 1933 and Hitler's accession to supreme power in Germany, and also after the closing of American doors to mass immigration, the Zionist leader Chaim Weizman accurately and bleakly analysed the situation of the European Jews. ``The world'' said Weizman ``is divided between places where we are not allowed to go, and places where we are in deadly danger''. It was only in these desperate days between 1933 and 1939 that mass-emigration of European Jews to Palestine began, and that the foundations of modern Israel were laid. As soon as Palestinian Arabs became fully aware of what was going on, many of them attacked Jewish communities, and killed as many Jews as they could. The Jews fought back and killed or drove out many Arabs. When Israel emerged as a state it was immediately attacked by five Arab states who were then defeated in war. Hostility between Israel and most of the population in the region of which Israel is part had become, and remains, a settled characteristic of the region. In Ireland, hostility between Catholic and Protestant goes back far earlier, but had become by the late nineteenth and early twentieth century, for most Irish people, much less ferocious and implacable. Irish Catholics wanted self-administration `Home Rule' but most of them before 1916, were content to remain within the British Empire. Irish Protestants most of them domiciled in what is now Northern Ireland rejected Home Rule, but Irish Protestants and Catholics both fought in the same British uniform on the same side in the First World War. When the war settled down into what seemed like a bloody stalemate in 1916-17, support for the war effort in Catholic Ireland began to fall off. After Sinn Fein, under the leadership of Patrick Pearse, had triggered off the 1916 Rising, the Catholic population seems initially to have been adverse to the Rising, but following the execution of the leaders, there was a mass revulsion within the Catholic population, leading to the victory of Sinn Fein in the 1918 election and the consequent period euphemistically known as `the Troubles'. Lloyd George, as Prime Minister believed he could settle the Irish problem by letting both sides have their way with regard to their own territory: Partition. PARTITION had indeed become inevitable and Lloyd George's recognition of it, in itself was sound and statesmanlike. What was not sensible was the way in which Partition was applied. The sensible way of applying it would have been county option, leaving the counties which opted out to form their own government, while those which remained in would simply continue as part of the United Kingdom, by their own decision. This would have been acceptable and would have had good prospects of leading to a peaceful settlement. But Lloyd George basically wanted to get rid of all varieties of Irish from the British parliament, and all interventions by them in British affairs. So he began by asking the Ulster Unionists how much territory they wanted. They opted for the most they thought they could hold which was six counties, whereas a plebiscitary consultation would have left them with no more than the equivalent of four. Lloyd George also gave them what they had not been looking for at all; a parliament of their own, which, in the nature of the situation would be dominated by unionists and run for the benefit of unionists. From Lloyd George's point of view the attraction of the whole thing was that the British Parliament would be blessedly free from the intrusion of Irish affairs, which had so long bedeviled British politicians. Present British policy towards Northern Ireland is continuous with that of Lloyd George to this extent: both were motivated by the urge to get rid of British involvement in Ireland as much and as soon as possible. With that object in view, Lloyd George made concessions to Protestants. With the same object in view, Tony Blair has been appeasing Sinn Fein-IRA. The appeasement has acquired the name of `peace process'. Under that soothing designation Northern Ireland has begun a slide into anarchy soon to be accelerated by a `reform' of the police which involves its progressive demoralisation. The `peace process' in both the Middle East and Ireland has involved a chronic effort to appease men of violence. Predictably, these have not been appeased, but have been confirmed in the belief that the threat of violence, combined with occasional applications of it, to back up the threat, is the most reliable formula for getting your own way. 
