middle east
{  
    March 23 2013 04:02 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/it-may-be-too-late-for-neglectful-president-and-the-middle-east-29149116.html }
IF BARACK Obama was under any illusions about the massive challenge he faces in trying to re-engage in the Middle East, he had a rude awakening the moment he arrived in Israel on his first visit there as US president. As he prepared to meet Israeli and Palestinian leaders, Hamas militants based in Gaza fired two rockets at the Israeli town of Sderot. It served as a reminder to the president of the huge task he faces in trying to rebuild relationships after four years of abject neglect. When Mr Obama chose Cairo to make his first keynote speech on the Middle East after becoming president, it was a deliberate attempt to redefine America's relationship with the region. Rather than the US being a slavish defender of Israel's security needs, he said he sought a "new beginning" with the Muslim world. But, as he conceded at the start of his current visit, he "screwed up". Far from persuading the Muslim world to adopt a more friendly approach towards America, all that has happened since the Cairo speech is that anti-US hostility in the Muslim world has deepened. Having tried to distance himself from the complexities of Middle Eastern politics, it now seems Mr Obama realises his policy of disengagement is no longer tenable. Thus, having made his first keynote speech on Middle East policy in an Arab capital, he made his second address in the city that Israel claims as the eternal capital of the Jewish people. He made clear that Washington was committed to defending Israel's "vibrant democracy", and reaffirmed America's opposition to Iran's nuclear programme. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's official position is that he is committed to achieving a two-state solution to resolve the long-standing dispute between Israel and the Palestinians. With every day that passes, however, that outcome looks less and less likely, not least because of the Israeli prime minister's refusal to freeze further settlement construction. After four years of neglect, Mr Obama may find his attempt to reconnect with the region is a case of too little, too late. (© Daily Telegraph, London) Irish Independent 
