middle east
{  
    July 18 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/sport/other-sports/purple-patch-in-first-half-sets-up-legion-for-east-kerry-league-title-27371507.html }
GNEEVEGUILLA . . . . . . . .0-12A PURPLE scoring patch in the final 12 minutes of the first half, during which they outscored their rivals by 1-5 to a single point, secured Legion the East Kerry senior league title in this replayed final (sponsored by Murphys Bar) on a ma GNEEVEGUILLA . . . . . . . .0-12 A PURPLE scoring patch in the final 12 minutes of the first half, during which they outscored their rivals by 1-5 to a single point, secured Legion the East Kerry senior league title in this replayed final (sponsored by Murphy’s Bar) on a magnificent Kilcummin surface on Saturday evening last. Gneeveguilla it was who set the early pace to take a four-point lead, but once Legion got to grips with them the scores began to flow and at the end of the day there could be no doubting that the honours deservedly rested with the Killarney side. Michael B O’Donoghue opened the scoring in the 5th minute for Legion, but for the next 15 minutes or so Gneeveguilla dictated matters, with Don Murphy giving them a decided edge at midfield, and their eager forwards, particularly Mike Finnegan and Ronan McAuliffe, caused all sorts of problems for an overworked Legion defence. Five points on the trot, four from the boot of Ronan McAuliffe, saw Gneeveguilla lead by 0-5 to 0-1 before Donal Culloty had a much-needed score for Legion at the end of the first quarter. A further point by Michael Murphy restored Gneeveguilla’s four-point advantage (0-6 to 0-2) and the signs were looking ominous for the Legion men. However, John Keane was now being seen to good effect around the centre, and got good support from the roving Donal Culloty, with the result that the Legion forwards began to see a lot more of the ball. They were not slow to capitalise on this new luxury and two points by Seanie Culloty cut the deficit in half by the 20th minute. Further points by Donal Culloty and a fine effort from John Keane had the sides on level terms and although Ronan McAuliffe restored Gneeveguilla’s lead, Legion struck for the decisive score of the match on the stroke of normal time. Seanie Culloty did all the work out on the wing before parting to Derek Pyne and although the centre-forward lost possession, he sidefooted the loose ball beautifully beyond the reach of Jer Cremin for a fine goal. Seanie Culloty added a point in injury time after good work by Seam Hegarty and impressive substitute, John McGillicuddy,and, after looking out of it for a long period of the half, Legion retired at the break three points to the good (1-7 to 0-7). Legion had gained the initiative in the closing stages of the half, but on the resumption Gneeveguilla took the fight to their opponents with two quick points, courtesy of Mike Finnegan and a really fine score from Donie O’Connor, to cut the Legion lead to the minimum. The sides swapped points on a couple of occasions, but as the half wore on it was clear that the Legion defence, with Sean Hegarty and Ger Mcgillicuddy in fine form, were getting to grips with their opponents. Their midfield, with Michael B O’Donoghue now also showing to good effect, was well on top, and up front Legion used the extra space at every opportunity. Five points still separated the sides at the three-quarter stage, but two good scores from Donal Culloty and Alan O’Neill pushed Legion four points clear with seven minutes remaining. Gneeveguilla did try to rescue the situation, but the Legion defence was now rock solid and further afield the town side used the possession game to good effect. Mike Finnegan did reduce the margin to as goal, but on the stroke of time a sustained bout of possession play from Legion ended with John Bowler sending over an excellent insurance score from 40 yards. So, a deserved victory for an improving Legion side who, once they found their feet, had fine performances from Sean Hegarty, John Bowler, John Keane, the Cullotys, who shared eight points between t hem, and Derek Pyne (2nd half). Tony Sheehan, John Cronin, John O’Donovan, Dan Murphy, Ronan McAuliffe and Mike Finnegan were best for Gneeveguilla. Legion: Justin Healy; Enda Murphy, Gene McCarthy, Fergal Moynihan; Sean Hegarty, John Bowler 0-1, Ger McGillicuddy; Michael B O’Donoghue 0-1, John Keane 0-1; Kevin Healy, Derek Pyne 1-1, Sean Culloty 0-4; Donal Culloty 0-4, Alan O’Neill 0-1, Michael O’Sullivan. Sub: John McGillicuddy for Healy. Gneeveguilla: Ger Cremin; Patrick Lawlor, Tony Sheehan, John Cronin; Michael Moynihan, John O’Donovan, P J Murphy; Fergus McAuliffe 0-1, Don Murphy; Donal O’Connor 0-2, Aeneas O’Leary, Michael Murphy 0-1; Ronan McAuliffe 0-5, Mike Finnegan 0-3, Arthur Moynihan. Subs: Tom Gleeson, Sean Óg O’Leary. Referee Jim O’Connor (Scartaglin) handled the game well and had a full complement of officials. After the game, Sean Murphy, of Murphy’s Bar, sponsors of the league, presented the league trophy to winning Legion captain, Sean Hegarty. The throw-in for this game was delayed by 15 minutes to facilitate players with work commitments.  GLENEAGLE HOTEL O’DONOGHUE CUP: FIRIES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1-6 CURROW . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0-8 Firies caused a major shock at Farranfore on Thursday evening in this O’Donoghue Cup 1st round game when a late goal by Neil Brendan Foley gave them victory over Currow in a game in which all the excitement was packed into the final five minutes or so. Improved play during the second quarter had seen Currow turn over two points to the good at the break and, with the home side squandering many fine scoring chances during the second half, Currow still held this advantage with normal time up on the clock. Then, after a sustained bout of Firies passing which seemed to be getting them nowhere, a high ball was sent into the middle of the Currow goalmouth. Backs and forwards went for the ball, which broke loose. Two attempts to stick the ball in the net were blocked before it fell at the feet of a grateful Foley, who needed no second invitation to finish amid tremendous scenes of excitement from the home following. The game was not over y yet, however, and during the four minutes of injury time played Currow got a couple of chances to retrieve the situation when, first, Denis Dennehy was wide with a very scoreable free from 25 yards, following a foul on sub Sean O’Connor, and then Dennehy again was off target after getting possession from the kick-out. Both sides lined out with some notable absentees. Thomas Mitchell, Jack Dennehy and Liam Brosnan were missing from the Currow line-up and Jeremiah O’Sullivan (a late injury victim) and Dermie Foley were absent for Firies. Currow had the advantage of the breeze in the first half and, despite having plenty of possession, Firies it was who had the first two scores of the game from Tom Corbett and Tadgh O’Keeffe. Currow opened their account in 15th minute when Con Fleming had a good score, but, significantly, they had already kicked five wides in that opening quarter and had also been deprived of a great goaling chance when Brendan Quirke saved excellently from Shane Loughlin after good play by Robbie Huggard and Denis Dennehy. Kerry star, Donal Daly, who was being marked by John McGlynn, was dictating matters around the centre, but improved play in that sector by Seamus Scanlon and the moving of Denis Dennehy to centre-forward, saw an improvement in Currow’s play and two points by Dennehy and two excellent scores from John McGlynn saw Currow lead by 0-5 to 0-2 approaching the break. By now however, Donal Daly was lording it over friend and foe alike and on the stroke of half-time the big midfielder landed a fine free from over 50 yards to rally his troops. It was 0-5 to 0-3 at the break for Currow, but wind advantage and the better half of a poor surface was going to be in favour of Firies in the second half. With Donal Daly performing heroics around the middle, Firies had plenty of possession on the resumption, but poor finishing and good defensive work by the Currow back line (especially Seamus Flynn) meant that Firies could not convert possession into scores. Donal Daly landed a beauty with his left from over 50 yards in the 40th minute, a score to which Denis Dennehy replied from a free two minutes later. These were the only scores of the first 20 minutes of thesecond half, but as the tempo picked up so did the scoring and two great pointed frees from over 50 yards by Daly to one in reply from Con Fleming left just the minimum between the sides with five minutes remaining. When John McGlynn pointed beautifully two minutes from the end of normal time after an interception by James Flynn, it looked to be the insurance score for Currow. However, Neil Brendan Foley, who upped his game considerably in the second half to be Firies’ best attacker, had the final dramatic say, to give his side a quarter-final meeting with either Legion or Spa. On the night, Donal Daly was a colossus for Firies, whether in defence or sweeping up around midfield, not to mention his enormous contribution to the scoreboard. He got good assistance from Brendan Quirke, Ger Murphy, James Casey, Eamonn Shanahan and Neil B Foley (both 2nd half). Currow were a pale shadow of the side we have come to know over the past few years. Kieran Scanlon manned the full-back spot, but I thought his strength and running was missed further out the field. Although John McGlynn kicked three wonderful scores, neither he nor Seamus Scanlon could make any inroads in the centre of the field, while up front only Denis Dennehy and Con Fleming posed any threat. Firies: Brendan Quirke; Donal Spring, Ger Murphy, Michael Lenihan; James Casey, Padraig Teahan, Timmy Fitzgerald; Donal Daly 0-4, Eamonn Shanahan; Tadhg O’Keeffe 0-1, Jerry O’Sullivan, John Aherne; Neil B Foley 1-0, Eamonn Kennelly, Tom Corbett. Subs: James and Michael O’Sullivan. Currow: Brendan Moran; James Fleming, Kieran Scanlon, David Walshe; John McGuire, Seamus Flynn, Shane Loughlan; John McGlynn 0-3, Seamus Scanlon; Con Fleming 0-2, John Daly, Maurice Browne; Robbie Huggard, Denis Dennehy 0-3, D J Cronin. Subs: James Galwey, Kevin Casey, Sean O’Connor. Referee: Johnny Cahill (Rathmore).  KILCUMMIN . . . . . . . . . . 3-16 SCARTAGLIN . . . . . . . . . . 1-5 Kilcummin easily brushed aside the feeble challenge of Scartaglin in this 1st-round Gleneagle Hotel O’Donoghue Cup game played in very heavy underfoot conditions, at Scartaglin on Friday evening. Apart from the fact that Kilcummin paved the way for a crunch quarter-final tie with Rathmore, this game will be remembered for precious little else. Scartaglin were out of their depth and judgement on Kilcummin’s prospects in this competition will have to wait for another day. In fairness to the home side, they did not lack heart and never threw in the towel at any stage, but, apart from a brief period at the end of the first quarter, they never threatened their more illustrious opponents. Willie Maher and the excellent Pa Rahily of Scart exchanged early points before D J Fleming had three scores on the trot for Kilcummin. In the 15th minute, however, Scart struck for a fine levelling goal when Fred O’Connor expertly fisted a high delivery from Con Kerins past Cha Doherty. Kilcummin’s response was immediate and clinical, however. Michael O’Connor struck for two Kilcummin goals, both set up by Sean B O’Doherty, and Kilcummin went on to lead at the beak by 2-7 to 1-3. Kilcummin reopened with five unanswered points before O’Connor turned provider, setting up Sean B O’Doherty for Kilcummin’s third goal. Thereafter, it was time to give the panel a run, though it is worth noting that Jimmy O’Donognue and Tom Boyle had good scores for a spirited but outclassed home side. It was good to see Niall Mangan back in the Kilcummin colours. Kilcummin: Cha Doherty; Tommy Brosnan, Kieran O’Donoghue, Kevin Burton; Derry O’Leary, Tommy Cooper, Timmy Joe Fleming; Ronan O’Connor, Michael McCarthy; Kieran Lynch, Paul McCarthy 0-1, Michael O’Connor 2-0; Sean B O’Doherty 1-2, Willie Maher 0-2, D J Fleming 0-9. Subs: Padraig Kelly, Jason McCarthy 0-2, Eamonn O’Donoghue, Niall Mangan, Muiris Healy. Scartaglin: Martin Hewitt; Donal Casey, Bernard Cronin, Tadhg O’Connor; Alan Cronin, Brendan Rahilly, Fergus O’Connor; Tom Boyle 0-1, Con Kerins; Damien O’Connor, Pa Rahilly 0-3, Jimmy O’Donoghue 0-1; Pa O’Connor, Sean Reidy, Fred O’Connor 1-0. Subs: Jimmy O’Connor and Maurice Brosnan. Referee Dan O’Sullivan (Currow). FOOTNOTE: This game went ahead only after referee Dan O’Sullivan had consulted with both clubs and board officials. O’DONOGHUE CUP QUARTER-FINALS: One first-round game, Legion vs Spa, remains to be played and it will probably go ahead next week. The draw for the quarter-finals is as follows. Rathmore v Kilcummin; Cordal v Gneeveguilla; Glenflesk v Dr Crokes; Legion or Spa v Firies.  CO U21 CHAMPIONSHIP: E KERRY . . . . . . . . . . . .0-14 FEALE RANGERS . . . . . 1-8 In very wet conditions at Gneeveguilla on Wednesday evening last, East Kerry qualified for a quarter-final meeting with Kenmare following a good victory over Feale Rangers. East Kerry raced into an early 0-4 to 0-1 lead, with a couple of good scores coming from Ross O’Donovan, but points by John McCarthy and the impressive Mike Cronin had Feale Rangers back in the game at the end of the first quarter. East Kerry finished the half in style, however, and had four unanswered points to lead by0- 8 points to 0- 3 at the break. Ross O’Donovan and Kieran Herlihy extended East Kerry’s lead before an injury to Michael Lenihan disrupted their rhythm and a point from Brendan Kelly and a fortuitous goal from Duagh’s Mike Cronin had Rangers back in the game at the three-quarter stage. Two points by the impressive Kerry junior, Ross O’Donovan, both from 50 yard frees, steadied East Kerry at a crucial stage and Eoin Darmody had the insurance score in the final minute. East Kerry: Gerard O’Sullivan; Michael Lenihan, Owen Lawlor, Conor O’Riordan; P J Murphy, Michael Moynihan, Colm Cronin; Fergus McAuliffe, Kieran Herlihy 0-1; Mark Kennedy 0-1, Eoin Darmody 0-2, Ross O’Donovan 0-7; Ronan McAuliffe 0-2, Domhnall O’Sullivan 0-1, Padraig Kelly. Subs: James Daly, Thomas Carmody, Padraig Malone and Aaron Quill. MINOR LEAGUE: No games were played in Div 1 of the minor league last week. In Div 2A, Fossa defeated Cordal by 3-6 to 1-11, having disposed of Kenmare earlier in the week, in a back game. Glenflesk received a walk-over from Kenmare. In Div 2 B, goals from Tomás Lynch and Micheál O’Donoghue for Spa and John Thompson and Brendan Rahilly for Scartaglin saw Spa lead by 2-7 to 2-1 at the break in Spa. With John Thompson scoring 1- 3, Scart reduced the deficit to a single point in the second half. However, Thomas Lynch scored Spa’s third goal in the closing minutes to clinch victory for his side. Scorers: Spa — Thomas Lynch 2-4, Micheál O’Donoghue 1-4, Niall O’Mahony 0-2, Paul Moynihan and Shane Lynch 0-1 each. Scartaglin; John Thomspon 2-3, Brendan Rahilly 1-1, John Culloty 0-2, Fred Galvin 0-1. Referee: Timmy O’Sullivan (Dr Crokes). In the other game in Div 2 B, Gneeveguilla defeated Dr Crokes by 1-17 to 1-7. Round 3 will be played on Thursday, July 25. Meanwhile ,East Kerry take on Feale Rangers in the county minor championship this Thursday evening in Mountcoal. Dr Crokes are at home to Shannon Rangers, Kilcummin are home to Laune Rangers and Glenflesk/Rathmore also have home venue against Kenmare. All games at 7.30. O’SULLIVAN CUP: The first round of the O’Sullivan Cup was disrupted somewhat this week because of the U21 county championship. Games will be rescheduled. Check Aertel page 573. In one game that was rescheduled for Sunday evening, Cordal defeated Currow B by 0-12 to 0-6 and now play Legion B or Spa B. GILLIAN O’SULLIVANS GALA RACE NIGHT: Well, a gala race night to raise funds for Gillian O’Sullivan’s assault on the European c’ships in Munich next month, and, of course, towards her long-term aim of getting a medal in the Athens Olympics, will be held in Darby O’Gills, Killarney, this Friday night at 9.00. Admission is free, so why not come along and meet Ireland’s latest world record holder and, in the process, give her a boost for her Olympic preparations. This function is being supported by all sporting organisations in the East Kerry area. Incidentally, congratulations to Gillian on her fantastic performance last weekend when winning the 5k walk in world record time. She certainly did us all proud. 
