middle east
{ CONOR CRUISE O'BRIEN 
    July 24 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/detecting-hope-in-the-diplomatic-sign-language-26181557.html }
Hints of change tend to come from the top, and sometimes reach middle and lower levels as a most unpleasant shock    ISRAEL AND SYRIA long arch-enemies within the Middle East are both doing well right now. They are doing well in different ways: Israel in the domains of economics and technology, Syria in diplomacy and public relations. Their mutual successes might be expected to fuel the old antagonisms. But it is also possible that the enhanced self-confidence of both parties might lead to a tentative rapprochement, and later to an agreement which would greatly strengthen Israel's security, while also strengthening Syria's prestige and influence within the Fertile Triangle. This week Syria's coming in from the diplomatic cold was the main theme of the news from the Middle East. The most spectacular item concerned the welcome accorded to President Assad of Syria by President Chirac in Paris on Assad's first visit to that city since he came to power more than 20 years ago. The hall where he spoke was decked with green, black, red and white Syrian flags. Assad was copiously eulogized by Jean Tiberi, the Mayor of Paris and a close ally of Chirac's. The main theme of the reception was to notify the US and Israel that the ``strategic partnership'' between France and Syria is serious. Whatever about the US, which has many factors to weigh, Israel's reaction to the announcement of a ``strategic partnership'' which could easily be interpreted as an alliance against Israel itself might have been expected to be sharply negative. But it was not. At the top, where it counts most, Israel's reaction to the Franco-Syrian rapprochement was remarkably positive. According to a Reuter's report carried by the New York Herald Tribune, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called President Assad ``serious'' and hailed his visit to France. ``We think it's a good thing,'' he said. It is true that Netanyahu's friendly approach was by no means reciprocated in the Syrian press, or even in Syrian diplomacy. On Monday Syria called on the new International Criminal Court to try Israel for crimes against humanity: ``Israel's crimes are countless and must be punished by the international court.'' Seasoned observers of the middle eastern political scene are likely to be much more interested in Netanyahu's friendly personal comment than in the venom of the Syrian official comment. In what concerns Middle Eastern politicians, the first broad hints of change tend to come from the top, and sometimes reach the middle and lower levels as a most unpleasant shock. Thus, on the eve of a critical vote in the UN General Assembly, in which Secretary of State George Marshall was passionately warning the Assembly against any move in favour of the creation of an Israeli State, Marshall received a curt note to tell him to drop his opposition as his boss, President Truman, had decided to recognise the State of Israel. That was the most dramatic turn-around I can recall, but the general phenomenon, according to which middle-east policy makers are continuing to send out signals which their bosses are already inclined to move away from is fairly common. Often a rather complex joint signal is being sent out to the general effect: ``We would like to move away from our entrenched position and will do so as soon as we can see some sign that you are willing to move out of yours. But until we do see we are going to continue giving you hell along the usual lines.'' Assad will have received Netanyahu's indication of a desire for detente quite clearly, and is likely to investigate it quietly, in order to probe Israel's present, and possible future, position on the Golan Heights. The future of the Golan Heights is by far the most important potential issue in the politics of the Middle East. For Israel, relations with Syria are far more important than relations with ``Arafat's Palestine''. For one thing there is really no such thing as Arafat's Palestine. Arafat is by now mostly unpopular with everybody except his immediate corrupt clientele. Hamas, and other paramilitary groups, most of them sustained from Syria through Lebanon, are vastly more popular than Arafat is. Arafat cannot disarm or rein in the paramilitary groups. Only Assad, now in control of Lebanon, as well as of Syria proper, could do that. The general shape of the potential deal between Israel and Syria is already clear to both parties and to all competent observers of the Middle East. If the deal could be successfully concluded and sustained, it could be enormously rewarding to both the potential partners. Syria could gain at one stroke the hegemony over the Fertile Crescent (minus Israel) for which it has yearned for so long. In exchange for cast-iron guarantees of Israel's security (to which I shall come later), Israel would give Syria a free hand in all of Lebanon right up to Lebanon's border with Israel. Israel would also recognise Jordan as a legitimate sphere of Syrian interest. Israel would withdraw all its forces and all its settlers from the Golan Heights. Syria's hegemony over Arafat's Palestine (or what was left of it) would also be recognised. In exchange for all that Israel would demand just one thing: that Syria will ensure that there shall be no further attacks on Israeli territory from any territories recognised as controlled by Syria, whether from present Lebanon or present Palestine or from Syria itself. If Syria broke the agreement by allowing attacks on Israel, Israel would be free to retaliate immediately and directly against Damascus. If the treaty held as it probably would Syria's formidable military and security apparatus, combined with its unrivalled network of political information and support throughout the whole region of the Fertile Crescent would enable Syria to enforce this policy throughout the whole area over which its authority was recognised without much difficulty. Syria would of course be roundly denounced by Egypt and other Arab countries for so iniquitous a deal. But Egypt itself did a very similar deal, 20 years ago, which still holds, and Syria's position within the Arab world would not suffer, but gain, from a deal which enlarged its territory and power. I have no doubt that if such a deal as I have described were on offer from Israel, Syria would grasp it and honour it. Israel would at last have secure and recognised frontiers, and enforceable guarantees against a continuance of guerrilla attacks from the territories of all its neighbours. These are tremendous potential gains for Israel, but it will still be very difficult for Israel to make the necessary bold moves. Syria being an authoritarian and near-totalitarian state can carry out diplomatic and military U-turns by fiat as the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany once used to do. But Israel is a democracy the only real one in the Middle East. And in a democracy, U-turns cannot be executed without a debate. The debate over this one could be acrimonious in the extreme. Still, the general character of the proposed move could be sweetened from the point of view of its most dangerous potential foes by timely concessions to their most endangered members. The present zones of Jewish settlement on the West Bank, and the most religiously-sensitive areas such as Hebron, could be recognised by Syria as part of the package and subject to the guarantees. Israel on the other hand would have to withdraw all its settlers and soldiers from the Golan Heights. Unless that were conceded, all the rest of the deal would collapse. But the settlers on the Golan are mostly not religiously motivated, as are those in Hebron for example, and if they were adequately compensated they could probably be withdrawn without too much trouble as happened with the Jewish settlers in former Egyptian territory when the deal with Sadat was done.  A deal between Israel and Syria would be very difficult, which is why no real progress towards such a deal has yet been made. Yet the rewards for both sides, under such a deal, are exceedingly tempting. And I believe that Netanyahu's surprisingly favourable remarks about a Franco-Syrian rapprochement are signalling his willingness to move slowly in the direction of such a deal if the other side shows signs of real interest. And I think such signs may be forthcoming, even before the end of the present year. 
