middle east
{  
    July 09 2013 03:19 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/team-effort-is-paying-off-29387892.html }
BEATING the gloomy recession statistics, TEAM Accessories near Dublin Airport have expanded their workforce by ten per cent over the past year-and-a-half and are currently adding a number of new products to their portfolio. Located near Dublin Airport, TEAM Accessories specialises in the maintenance, repair and overhaul of a wide variety of accessories and components installed on today's airframes and their power plants. Established in 1995 by North County Dublin man Tom Vaughan, an ex-Aer Lingus apprentice, the company has gone from strength to strength over the years and is now focused on adding new capabilities to the range, including safety equipment such as liferafts, jackets and slides. The company currently employs 35 people and exports across the globe to a number of countries and continents including the UK, Europe, the Middle East and America. The workforce is a team of high-skilled professionals who have over 200 year's experience in the aviation industry between them. They also plan to add oxegen cylinders to the portfolio of products and will be the only company in Ireland doing this. The company believes this will also lead to a further expansion in the workforce, creating more jobs in the local area. In addition, the company hopes to also add hydraulic capabilities for the 737 New Generation and the A320 airframes over the next six weeks. The company currently supports Dublin Aerospace, Shannon Aerospace and Transaero Engineering, based in Shannon. However, the majority of the company's business – 85 per cent – is export-based and, to this end, TEAM Accessories were delighted to welcome a delegation from Saudi Arabia recently. The visit was organised by Enterprise Ireland with delegations from Asia and the Middle East invited to Ireland to meet with a number of aviation companies from the area. 'They invited current and potential new customers over so we meet with them,' explained TEAM Accessories Director Tom Gibbons. 'One was a delegation from Saudi Arabia, we don't do business with them at the moment but we want to going forward so it was a great opportunity to meet with them and highlight what we do.' Enterprise Ireland held a forum at their offices in the East Point Business Park where a 'meet and greet' session took place. 'They also visited us in North County Dublin and it was a great opportunity to meet the 25 deligates who visited out offices,' said Mr Gibbons. 'It was very succesful and we've had a lot of follow-ups since then. We have sent out some pricing and quotations and we hope to receive some new business orders from it.' 'It is a global business but the UK, Europe the Middle East and America would be our main customer base,' explained Mr Gibbons. 'Where we are trying to grow our business is in Asia, the Middle East and China as well as obviously growing our customer base in the current markets.' Fingal Independent 
