middle east
{  
    January 24 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/a-mid-east-fallacy-26199458.html }
THE Middle East ``peace process'' has been in trouble this week, as our own has been. It may be instructive to compare both.First of all, contrary I think to a rather widespread impression here, the underlying conflict between Jews and Arabs in the Middle East is far more charged with hate than are the general relations between Protestants and Catholics in Northern Ireland. That famous handshake on the White House Lawn between Arafat and Rabin was hyped beyond all measure, as if it meant a stable and lasting peace between Arabs and Jews. The hate continued on both sides and only assumed new and more volatile forms in the new conditions. It did not get any worse. It could hardly do that. The elemental ferocity of Arab hostility to Israel and Israelis appears every day in the Arab press. It was grimly apparent during the Gulf War when large crowds in Jordan cheered Saddam's SCUD missiles as they passed over Amman on their way to what the crowds hoped and believed was the destruction of Tel Aviv. This is a kind of benchmark establishing how much more widespread in their intensity are the animosities aroused by the conflict between Jews and Arabs in the Middle East than anything widely prevalent in the relations between Catholics and Protestants in Ireland. It is impossible to imagine large crowds gathering in Dublin to cheer the passage of explosive missiles bound for Belfast. It is true that missiles arriving in Belfast would have killed Catholics as well as Protestants. But missiles hitting Tel Aviv would have killed some Arabs as well as Jews, and that thought did not prevent the crowds in Amman from cheering the missiles on. Most Israeli Jews do not feel like that about Arabs in General, but quite a large minority of Jews does feel almost exactly like that. Jewish and Arab terrorism interact in a similar way to Catholic and Protestant terrorism in Northern Ireland, but on an even more formidable scale. Nor is any end clearly in sight in either case. The idea that terrorists can be bought off by timely concessions, so that lasting peace will ensue is common to both peace processes. And it is a fatally erroneous idea. In the Middle East and in Northern Ireland you can buy yourself a ceasefire, by conceding some part of the terrorists' demands. But you cannot buy yourself any more than a ceasefire. The basic demand behind the terrorism will remain the same. The IRA want ``Brits out'' and no more Northern Ireland, and will not accord peace for anything less than that. Their occasional ``cessations of military operations'' are periods of political blackmail backed by the threat of resumption whenever the blackmail is found not to be paying off sufficiently. The two sovereign governments have so far shown an abject willingness to reward the blackmail, and so long as that remains the case, the IRA and its political wing Sinn Fein will continue to flourish waging war and peace alternately as may suit the perceived interests of their enterprise. The Middle Eastern case is basically similar but significantly different in form, Arafat's Fatah, having made the disastrous error of backing what proved to be the losing side in the Gulf War, found itself cut off from what had been its main and copious sources of funds: Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These had essentially been paying blackmail to Fatah, and found themselves rewarded for that blackmail by seeing Fatah cheering on those who attacked them. So they cut off the funds and a bankrupt Fatah was forced to turn to the United States, which it had so loudly denounced for so long. The United States blew off the dust from the old ``land for peace'' policy which had been around for decades, without getting anywhere. Arafat, having nowhere else to go, and seeing the prospect of some funding from the United States opted for ``land for peace.'' Israel, despite grave misgivings, thought it wise to reach a form of agreement in effect dictated by the US, and one which meant that Arafat had abandoned his old demand for the total extinction of Israel, and the inauguration of Arab rule over all Palestine. But there was a catch, as Israel soon found. Arafat might have settled for something less than the extinction of the state of Israel, but other organisations of which HAMAS was the most prominent remained committed to the destruction of the State of Israel. And these organisations now had secure bases in the territories handed over to Arafat. Israel demanded that Arafat take effective steps against the terrorists based in his territories. But Israel also knows that Arafat is unable to take steps against the terrorists, even if he wanted to, which he does not. He is unable to because the terrorists are numerous, well-armed and with high morale, while his own regime is conspicuously corrupt and inefficient and despised by the population of the territories nominally under its control. THE terrorists, however, while they despise Arafat, value his regime as a screen, behind which they can operate against Israel, with basic impunity. So they join with Arafat in a little political comedy. Whenever the heat is on as after some Hamas attack on Israel they allow Arafat to arrest some of their number, on the understanding that these will be quietly released when things are a bit quieter. That's pretty well how the ``peace process'' now stands in relation to Israel quite a gloomy outlook, with little or no prospect of early relief, only more and more of the same and at worst deterioration. But how about our own peace process? I think it probable that the IRA will end its ``cessation of military operations,'' for the second time, before the end of the present year. But what then? I also think it probable that an effort will be made to keep the ``peace process'' alive, even if a bit dormant, after the IRA's resumption. Sinn Fein-nominally distinct from the IRA will offer its good offices to bring about a new ceasefire, for which the IRA would have to be suitably rewarded. And there will certainly be takers for such an attractive sounding offer. I would hope that John Hume would not be among the takers, but I fear that he might. And if he is, the Government in Dublin would be at least tempted to say ``me too'' to John Hume. If it yields to that temptation, we shall continue down the slippery slope of going on yielding to political blackmail, based on the threat of renewed paramilitary violence.  On the other hand, there is some hope that the shock of the second resumption of paramilitary violence might lead to a fundamental re-examination of the flawed logic on which this whole peace process has been conducted, to the great and visible benefit of Sinn Fein-IRA. I believe the three sets of police forces in mainland Britain, Northern Ireland and in the Republic would, in those circumstances, throw their weight against any continuance of the appeasement policy, miscalled ``peace process.'' Instead they would call for full Governmental support for the police forces in combating terrorism, from whatever quarter that terrorism may come. Is it too much to hope that the police will get that support unequivocally from both governments after the breakdown of the second cessation of military operations? 
