middle east
{  
    March 19 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/another-snub-from-israel-as-cook-goes-to-syria-26193793.html }
ISRAEL delivered a final snub to Robin Cook yesterday: not one Israeli official was on hand to bid the British Foreign Secretary farewell at Ben Gurion airport, near Tel Aviv, as he left for Syria on the next stage of his Middle East tour. As Israeli politicians gathered in the Knesset to vent their spleen against his alleged pro-Arab bias, Ehud Barak, leader of the main opposition Labour Party, said he was pleased that a ``technical scheduling problem'' had prevented his own planned meeting with Mr Cook from going ahead. Mr Barak said that Mr Cook had demonstrated ``poor judgment'' in insisting on visiting Har Homa, the contested biblical hillside in annexed east Jerusalem, where Mr Cook was mobbed by angry Jewish settlers calling him an ``anti-Semite''. `NO REGRETS' The Foreign Secretary was given a warm welcome in Damascus, despite driving snow, and saluted for taking a stand at Har Homa. Farouk al-Sharaa, the Syrian foreign minister, said: ``What happened in Israel illustrates in concrete fashion that the Israeli government doesn't care about peace in the Middle East.'' Mr Cook does not regret the confrontation at the Israeli settlement. He told journalists that it was right for the European Union to demonstrate its concern. Israelis said yesterday that Binyamin Netanyahu's abrupt cancellation of a dinner on Tuesday night was a calculated move, intended to bolster the beleaguered prime minister's domestic standing in the face of continued American pressure. A confrontation with the EU, particularly with the British, plays well with voters now recalling the 50th anniversary of Israel's underground fight against the British mandate authority. The Israeli press had a field day lambasting Mr Cook's performance, claiming that he had doomed the EU's attempt to play an expanded role as a Middle East peacemaker. The Jerusalem Post asked whether `Throbbin' Robin', as it called the Foreign Secretary, ``might yet look back on Har Homa as the graveyard of his political career''. However, Mr Cook did hold substantive discussions with both Mr Netanyahu and Yitzhak Mordechai, the defence minister, who is looking to Europe to support Israel's tentative proposal for a long-delayed implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 425 calling for an Israeli withdrawal from southern Lebanon. Mr Cook discussed this at length in Damascus and also Beirut but made clear that, while Britain would welcome a unilateral Israeli withdrawal, it saw great difficulty in treating the Lebanese track separately from negotiations with Syria on withdrawal from Golan. President Assad was adamant in talks with Mr Cook that Syria would not allow any uncoupling of the two issues, and Mr Cook recognised that Syria could veto any conditions that Beirut might agree for policing the security zone if the Israelis were to withdraw. In London Robin Cook's immediate predecessor launched a stinging attack on the Foreign Secretary yesterday saying his public spat with the Israeli government had placed a question mark over his ability to carry out his job. As Prime Minister Tony Blair threw his weight behind the Foreign Secretary, Sir Malcolm Rifkind said Mr Cook had made himself virtually ``persona non grata'' in Israel and diminished British influence in the Middle East. Sir Malcolm described his fellow Scot as a ``very, very able man''. But he told BBC Radio 4: ``Diplomatic skills are not automatically to be found with ability. Either he is going to have to learn them or he is increasingly going to find himself in this sort of predicament.''  (* The Times London) 
