middle east
{ Eugene Moloney 
    July 15 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/first-direct-link-to-middle-east-takes-off-25975837.html }
IN-flight nannies are among the passenger perks being offered by Ireland's first scheduled direct air link to the Middle East, which was launched yesterday. Starting in December, Gulf Air will fly three times a week between Dublin and Bahrain with connections to the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Australia. The airline is hoping that by offering a service which avoids the need for people to change planes at Heathrow that they will capture a large portion of Ireland's growing long-haul market. 'Sky Nannies' will look after young travellers on first-class services. Taoiseach Bertie Ahern welcomed the new Gulf Air air route as a major boost to developing both tourism and trade with Asia. Gulf Air Chief Executive, James Hogan, said the airline is aiming to fly 900 passengers a week between Dublin and Bahrain, and capture between 15 to 20pc of Ireland's existing long-haul market to Asia, Africa and India. Fares to Bahrain will start from ?520 return, said Mr Hogan. The new route, Ireland's first scheduled long-haul service outside North American routes, comes in the wake of a dramatic increase in the past five years of the numbers of Irish people holidaying in India, South East Asia and the Middle East, as well as more established destinations such as Australia. Paul O'Toole, Chief Executive of Tourism Ireland, welcomed the new service as a means of increasing the number of visitors to Ireland, while Mr Ahern said: "Direct air access to the Gulf and beyond is clearly critical to the markets that Ireland can serve." Mr Ahern said he had discussed the setting up of the new service when he met Mr Hogan in Bahrain last autumn. "My interest was driven by the Government's planned launch of a new phase of Asia strategy, which is focussed on developing trade with Asian countries," said Mr Ahern. "This direct flight by Gulf Air will give more access to Ireland from our new and developing markets," Mr O'Toole added. The latest figures show that in March some 16,000 people travelled to Ireland from Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, India and other Asian countries, and this market grew by 24pc last year. 
