middle east
{ ROBERT FISK 
    January 04 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/we-have-no-reason-to-despise-the-arabs-26125371.html }
ALMOST exactly 1,000 years ago, Pope Urban urged Christians to crusade against the infidel Muslims. Last week, the US State Department warned of ``terrorism'' in the US that might coincide with the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.For the Caliph El Hakim, destroyer of the Holy Sepulchre church, read Osama bin Laden, self-declared enemy of the corrupt West; for Knights Templar, read the leaders of the free world. What has changed in our last millennium? What will change in the next? For almost a quarter of a century, I've been a Middle East correspondent - see how I still use that phrase, the pejorative expression for the centre of the Muslim world? Yet I'm writing with a lap-top that could not have existed but for the Arabs, whose 700-year-old treatises on algebra I've held in my hands in Beirut, Baghdad and Mostar. Technology was the gift of the Arabs. Astronomy and mathematics, too - it was the Muslim world that gave us the zero (``sefr'' in Arabic) in maths, which let us use long division. The Crusaders were untutored. Their armour was strong but their tactics were poor. In Syria they practised cannibalism. ``Our troops boiled pagan adults in cooking pots; they impaled children on spits and devoured them grilled,'' wrote Rudolph of Caen about the village of Maarra. Yet it was we, the West, who were on a ``civilising'' mission. When the Crusaders reached Jerusalem, they massacred Muslims and Jews alike, until the blood washed round the feet of their horses. When the French returned to the Levant in 1918, they came with a mission to civilise. General Henri Gouraud - about to cut up Syria and create the artificial, Christian-run state of Lebanon, strode to the tomb of the greatest Saracen leader in Damascus and publicly stated: ``Saladin, we have returned.'' Lebanon fell apart in front of my eyes for 16 years. As for Syria, her cavalrymen were mown down by French tanks at the battle of the Maysaloun Pass - hands up, any reader who has heard of that terrible conflict - and their military leaders put to death. How did we do so much harm to this region? How did the Arabs collapse? Perhaps our Renaissance was their Dark Age. Confronted by the geographical advantages of the West, its colonial adventurism, its ``sheer guts'' - a powerful phrase of the great Lebanese (Protestant Christian) scholar Kamal Salibi - Muslims of the Middle East were defensive, unwilling to question received opinion. Christianity, an Arab cardinal explained to me, was more powerful than Islam because Christians had to fight their way to faith through self-doubt. Muslims were told the divine truth and had only to accept. The Arabs obeyed orders. And so they do. As the British encouraged a Jewish state in the Muslim world - a ``return'' of the Jewish people, it was said, whose distant ancestors were scattered by the Romans - the Palestinian Arabs briefly rebelled and then capitulated (along with their treacherous Arab neighbours) in the face of a new Israel. In the last half of this century, an Israel supported by the world's greatest superpower has been taught to fear only those Arabs who are too brutal to fall into line. In the coming year, we are told, there will be peace between pliant Arab neighbours and the ``new'' Israel of Ehud Barak, a peace to mark the new millennium. If only. If Israel gives back all of Syrian Golan. If it returns Golan and leaves Lebanon. If it gives back all the Palestinian land it took in the 1967 war. If it allows the Palestinians a capital in east Jerusalem. If it ends settlements on occupied land. If refugees can return. But refugees cannot return. Mr Barak has said so. Jerusalem must remain the ``undivided and eternal'' capital of Israel. Mr Barak has said so. The major Jewish settlements on Palestinian land will stay. Mr Barak has said so. Indeed, Mr Barak has been extending those very settlements at great speed. And Arabs and Jews now demand mass amnesia to support this ``peace''. We must always remember the Jewish Holocaust but not even acknowledge the dispossession of Palestinians by the Jewish armies in 1948. We must remember Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait in 1990 - because Kuwait was the West's friend - but not Saddam Hussein's invasion of Iran in 1980 - because Iran was the West's enemy. Now, we must remember that the corrupt Yasser Arafat has just appointed a convicted torturer as his new West Bank prosecutor, but must forget that Mr Barak has appointed Amos Yaron - notorious as the divisional commander in Beirut at the time of the Sabra and Chatila massacre - as the director general of Israeli defence. And so, amid such double standards, we are asked to believe in peace. During the opening of the new Israeli-Syrian talks in Washington this month, Israeli shells wounded 25 children in a Lebanese village school. The world was silent. Had those shells been Syrian and the victims Israeli, the world would, rightly, have been loud in condemnation. Peace, peace, peace; just keep saying that word. And anyone who says this peace is unjust, or who suggests that America is planting a time-bomb in the Middle East, is - remember this - an enemy of peace, a racist, potentially if not actually anti-Semitic, and a possible ``terrorist''. Forget that Israel will stay on occupied Palestinian land, that Arafat will not be given part of Jerusalem, that almost every Arab capital is ruled by a dictator whose secret policemen are increasingly trained by us. Forget, too, that the country we most mistrust - Iran - is the nearest to a true democracy that the Muslim Middle East possesses. But didn't we go through this amnesia before? Didn't we learn at school about ``good'' King Richard the Lionheart, about the brave Crusaders fighting the barbarian Saracens, just as we later learnt about the brave American settlers fighting the barbaric Indians who were being dispossessed - ethnically cleansed - as surely as any Palestinian or Kosovo Albanian. Why, even the Israelis living on someone else's land are called ``settlers''. And the future? The oil will run out, of course, in a couple of hundred years. The Middle East will not then be quite such a strategic area for ``us'', although three religions will remain to poison the soil. If America's Jews are the most politically powerful minority in the US, the increasing American Muslim population may come to challenge them. So may the increasingly extremist Christian fundamentalist community throughout the West. True, there are courageous Israelis and American Jews who are tired of the destruction of the Arabs. There are Arabs who long to break free of oppression. But what does that count against naked power and technology? The Arabs - with their tin-pot dictatorships, their torture chambers and their largely third-rate universities - may have taken comfort in one thing at the end of the century - the threat that their own ancient technology could have inflicted on the self-satisfied West on New Year's Eve. The millennium bug is, after all, about the figures ``00'' - the ``sefrs'' of the Arabs, two of the zeros that they gave us.  Independent News Service 
