middle east
{  
    May 25 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27362929.html }
U-14 East Kerry League Results Round 1, Dr Crokes 4-11, Rathmore 2-13. Currow 4-5, Legion 6-3. Spa 4-18, Firies 2-10. Kilcummin - Bye. Round 2, Currow 2-7, Dr Crokes 5-9. Fixtures - Round 2. Wednesday 25 May at 7.30 pm. Rathmore v Legion. Kilcummin v Firies. Spa - Bye. Round 3. Wednesday 01 June at 7.30 pm. Rathmore v Currow. Dr Crokes v Kilcummin. Spa v Legion. Firies - B U-14 East Kerry League Results Round 1, Dr Crokes 4-11, Rathmore 2-13. Currow 4-5, Legion 6-3. Spa 4-18, Firies 2-10. Kilcummin - Bye. Round 2, Currow 2-7, Dr Crokes 5-9. Fixtures - Round 2. Wednesday 25 May at 7.30 pm. Rathmore v Legion. Kilcummin v Firies. Spa - Bye. Round 3. Wednesday 01 June at 7.30 pm. Rathmore v Currow. Dr Crokes v Kilcummin. Spa v Legion. Firies - Bye. U-14 County Championship Rd 1 Monday 30 May at 7.30 pm. East Kerry v Castleisland District in Fossa. Eoghan Ruadh v Feale Rangers in Listowel. RESULTS of competition which was held in Ceolann CCE Hall, Lixnaw on Friday night. 1, Scoil Mhic Easminn A; 2, Dromclough NS; 3, Kilcummin National School; 4, Dromclough NS A; 5, Scoil Mhic Easminn B. Singers preparing for the Fleadh Cheoil should take note that a four hour workshop under the guidance of Karen Lynch will be held in Ceolann Lixnaw on Friday, June 17 from 4 to 10pm. Queries to Runai at (066) 7132323. Coiste na nOg - U-14 Football - East Kerry League Rd 1, Dr Crokes 4-11, Rathmore 2-13. The U-14 team had a tremendous win over Rathmore in Rd 1 of the East Kerry league played at Lewis Rd. The Crokes led at half-time on a score of 3-6 to 0-8. Rathmore applied the pressure in the second-half in a bid to gain the win but the Crokes were in a determined mood on the night. Every member of the team played his part in the victory. East Kerry League Rd 2, Dr Crokes 5-9, Currow 2-7. The team continued on their winning way with a fine win away to Currow on Monday night. The ability to score goals again proved decisive and after some great football we led by 4-3 to 0-5 at half-time. The lads had to withstand a spirited fightback by Currow in the second half but again they stood firm. James Barry was again outstanding in goal and Chris Brady had a tremendous game. Fixture Rd 3 v Kilcummin at home on Wednesday 01 June at 7.30pm. U-12 Football, Rd 4 County League, Dr Crokes 3-5, Kerins O'Rahilly's 4-2. The U-12 team 1 maintained their unbeaten run by playing out a draw with Kerins O'Rahilly's. The goals on the night were scored by Derek Maye, Anthony Cronin and Will Horan. Team 2 also ended level with Firies in their Rd 4 game. U-12 Girls - Our U-12 girls had their first outing on Sunday at the county U-12 blitz in Tralee. Winning all their group games well, against Kilcummin, Abbeydorney and Firies they played Duagh in the semi-final. They won that on a score-line of 4-4 to 0-5 with Rheanne O' Shea once again top scorer. This set them up with Na Gaeil in the final. This proved to be the toughest game of the day. Leading by a point at half time, we held on to win 1-3 to 0-3. A delighted Karena O' Leary (capt) accepted the trophy on behalf of the team. Well done to trainer Paula McElligott. Team: L. Moloney, V.Ashe, A.Kerrisk, E.Cronin, L.O'Sullivan, A.Brennan, K. O'Leary (cpt), T. Murphy, R. O'Shea, M.Buckley, A. Kennedy, A.Donovan,E.Buckley,C.Doherty, S.Doherty, J. Edwards, L. Kelly, C.Kissane,Z.O'Sullivan, T.O'Shea, S.Marcus. U-14 team are playing Southern Gaels this weekend. Contact Paula for details. U-12 Hurlers - This team just keeps on winning. Kilgarvan were always going to be a stiffer test than any team the Crokes boys had met to date. The result ended 2-4 to 1-1 in Crokes favour. Scorers were Gavin O‚Shea 1-0, Anthony Keogh 1-0, Aodán Burns 0-2, Anthony Cronin 0-1 and Cillian Fitzgerald 0-1. Graham Fleming made some outstanding saves in goal. Brian Murphy was a revelation in defence and John Ivory, Dave O‚Connor, Alex Goggins and Christopher Buckley had good games also. This Friday, the Crokes hurlers travel to Killorglin hoping to continue their winning ways.  MINORS: DR CROKES 0-12 KERINS O’RAHILLYS 1-6 IN Fitzgerald Stadium last Friday evening, our minor team retained their county title beating the same opposition as last year. In a very exciting game of football they displayed better finishing ability, and none more than our livewire corner forward Jamie Doolan who got two precious points in the closing minutes to kill off the stubborn challenge of the Tralee side. For full report see sports section. Team: A Kelly, J Bartlett, J Payne, T Ryan, J Wrenn, M Moloney, G Tucker, K O’Leary capt (0-1), I Howard (0-1), P O’Connor, J Buckley, B Looney (0-2), D Galvin (0-2), R Mangan (0-2), J Doolan (0-4). Subs: D O’Donnabháin, D O’Leary, B O’Connell, M Mac Mahon, D Cronin. Team mentors: J Galvin, B Hennigan, J Connolly, J Cahillane (snr), D Corridan. SENIORS: Dr Crokes 1-8, Kerins O’Rahillys 0-11. In our home ground last Sunday a goal in the final minutes by Keith Mac Mahon gave us a one point lead, but Rahillys fought back to get a share of the spoils. Our other scorers were Mike O’Grady (0-4, 0-3f), James Jones (0-2), Ciaran Brosnan and Shane Doolan a point each. Our next county league game will be away to Desmonds June 4/5. This Sunday our attention turns to Durlas Éile, and Kerry’s meeting with Tipperary. HAPPY BIRTHDAY JACK: He is 93 years young this Sunday. Jack O’Keefe, St Margaret’s Road, a Kerry minor back in 1931 and before that in 1926 played with the Mon team. We wish him many more birthdays, agus lá bhreithe shona duit Jack. HURLERS: Away to Ballyheigue this Wednesday and June 1, at home to Lady’s Walk at 8pm. C TEAM: Away to Neidín this Friday at 8pm. LEANBH NUA: To Darren and Joanne Gaffey congratulations on their first, a little cailín Olivia. TWO LOTTO WINNERS: Our lotto has been won two weeks in a row and our congratulations to both winners. An Post employee Pat O’Donoghue, Sheans Two Mile School won ?3900. Then last Sunday night, Tim O’Sullivan, St Brendans Place a maintenance man in St Finians Hospital won ?3000. Like Jack O’Keefe he is a former pupil of the Old Mon in Bóthar Nua. BLACK & AMBER LOTTO: The numbers drawn were 1, 11, 18, 23. The jackpot winner was Timothy O’Sullivan, 30 St Brendans Tce who won ?3000. Match three, 16 x ?35 - Ann Hickey, c/o Mella; John Foran, O’Kelly’s Villas; Tim Brosnan, c/o Chris Connor; Brian O’Sullivan, c/o Klinge; Maura Fenton, The Park; Kelly and Dillon, c/o Tatler; Leo Casey, c/o Lyno; Josie O’Donoghue; Paddy O’Donovan, c/o B Keogh; Ann O’Donoghue, c/o Patsy; Donal Shine; Eileen Fleming, c/o Town Hall; Terry Casey, c/o Patsy; Denis O’Sullivan, 56 Pinewood; Mary Sheehan, c/o Vintage; Michelle Griffin, 14 Maple Drive. Jackpot next Sunday, May 29, will be ?3000. The draw takes place in the Stretford End. FIRIES played Na Gaeil in the fifth round of the county league on Saturday night and after a hard fought and entertaining match came away with a 2-5 to 0-7 win. The half time score being 1-3 to 0-4. This was a great all round display with Donagh O’Donoghue at full-back having an outstanding match. FIXTURE: Firies will play Spa in the first round of the O’Donoghue Cup on Saturday, May 28 at 5pm in Kilcummin. The B game was called off at the weekend. They play Currow in Currow this Friday night, May 27. RESULTS: The u-12 team lost to Ballyheigue on Sunday evening in Farranfore and drew with Crokes. The u-14 team lost narrowly to Spa on Wednesday evening. EXAMS: The club would like to wish all our players the best of luck and every success in the exams. LOTTO: Numbers drawn at Sheahan’s Bar on May 18 were 4, 5, 30. The jackpot of ?1,700 was not won. Prizewinners: ?30 each — Gregory Breen, Keelties, Firies; James O’Sullivan, Rathbeg, Firies; Helen Healy, c/o Bridie Grady; Jimmy Browne, c/o Connie McCarthy; Tadhg O’Keeffe, c/o Kerry Airport. Next week’s jackpot will be ?1,800 and will take place in Johnny’s Bar, Firies on Wednesday, May 25 at 10pm. DEATHS: The death has occurred in England of Fr Michael Daly, formerly of Swinemount. The death has also taken place of Denis DD Donoghue of Rathbeg and the Black Valley. Sympathy is extended to their relatives and friends. FIRST COMMUNION: Congratulations to the 26 children who received their First Holy Communion in St Gertrude’s Church, Firies on Saturday. WHIST DRIVE: Prizewinners at the Marian Hall on Wednesday, May 11. Liam Moriarty, Mai McKenna, MB O’Sullivan, Wm O’Leary, J Moriarty, Eileen O’Connor, Bridie Moriarty, Kitty Fitzgerald, Deirdre Boyd, Kate O’Sullivan, F Brennan. Raffle: Peg Brosnan, Yvonne George, Eileen O’Riordan, Bridie Moriarty, Eileen Fitzgerald. ATHLETICS: Congratulations to the boys and girls who took part in the Munster schools in Cork — James Nagle (3 gold); Daniel Clifford (2 gold, 1 silver); Katie O’Shea (2 silver, 1 bronze); Niall Prendeville (1 gold); Ian Crowley (1 silver), Shane Hand (silver); Breda Ladden (silver), Marie Flynn (bronze). Maura Fitzgerald had to come up an age group for the 3k and did very well to finish sixth. Well done to Emma Prendeville and John C O’Leary, who got silver medals at the cross country in Mosney. Congrats to Margaret Moriarty who did very well at the county Masters in Castleisland and to all who took part on Sunday at the Riocht sports. Qualifiers are reminded that the county primary finals (1st class upwards) at Castleisland track on Saturday at 11am. Estuary sports on Sunday. Introduction to coaching course at Riocht track on Saturday at 9.30. PROCESSION: Corpus Christi Procession on Sunday after 11.30am Mass from the Church to Firies Drive Estate. Clubs and organisations from the parish will be represented. NOVENA . . . to the Sacred Heart will take place in Firies Church from Monday, May 30 to Friday, June 3 and in Ballyhar Church on the Wednesday and Friday. COMMUNITY GAMES: Tag rugby on Sunday in Tralee Rugby Club. Best of luck. Athletics training for county qualifiers Monday in Castleisland Track from 6.30 to 7.30pm; Friday in Farranfore from 6.30 to 7.30pm. TRIBUTE: Kerry School of Music organised a tribute concert to Dr Dick Shanahan at Siamsa Tire on Sunday in recognition of his life long service to music, church and community. Congratulations. CARDS: Result from Farranfore on Saturday. 1, Tony Marshall / Denis McCarthy; Jerry Moriarty / Eileen Coffey; 2, Dan O’Connor / Mick Kennedy; Kathleen Nolan / Seamus McKenna. Ladies: Mary T O’Sullivan / Peg Cronin; Mary Moynihan / Mary Tarrant. Gents: Eugene O’Callaghan / Denis O’Leary. Mixed: Pat and Doreen Flaherty; Mick Allen / Joan Quirke; Mick McKenna / Helen Leane. Spots: Mike and Catherine O’Sullivan; John Healy / Mick Walsh; Donie Doherty / Dode Moriarty. Raffle: Jerry O’Brien, Billy O’Sullivan, Denis Carroll, Mary B O’Sullivan, Johnny Moore. FOSSA LOTTO: 7, 13, 15 and 25 No jackpot winner. No Jackpot Winner. 4 x ?50 Ned Spillane, Fossa, Liz Foley, Barleymount, Catherine Duke, Barleymount, Pauline Sweeney, Lacabane. 4 x ?25 Lisa O'Neill, Two Mile School, Paudie Moriarty, Lahard, David Rae, C/o Jimmy O'Briens, Pearl O'Connell, Aughacureen. This Weeks Jackpot ?2,150 FOSSA MINOR TEAM: Renard 1-13 Fossa 1-6 In the final of Div 5 County league played in Killorglin on Friday evening, Fossa lost this game in the first half. Missing Kerry minor Jimmy Falvey out injured, Fossa just didn't play for the first half. Playing with a strong breeze in the first half, Fossa found themselves 1-9 to 0-1 down at half time, the solitary point coming in the first few minutes from Colin Davidson. Fossa played with a bit more pride and passion in the second half and on another day and completed outplayed the opposition. But it was too late. The best moved of the game saw John Falvey score a brilliant goal and two other under 16's, Robbie Foley and Kevin Sullivan were outstanding. David Donavan played a great game in defence but it was not enough on the night. The management team would like to thank the club for the meal in the Old Killarney Inn after the match and would like to wish the players doing exams all the best of luck over the next few weeks. FOSSA UNDER 12 TEAM: Under 12 County League Fossa 3-13 Dr Crokes B 0-2 Fossa maintained their 100% record when they completed their section in the county league on Sunday evening in Fossa. Fossa raced into a 1-9 to 0-0 half-time scoreline and continued to dominated in the second half Team & Scorers:- D Cronin, J Cronin, D Palmer, A Buckley (0-3) B Walsh, M O'Shea, P Sheehan (0-2) D Osterloh, D McCarty, E Greeley, D O'Keefe(1-0) T O'Shea (1-4) F O'Shea (1-3) E Coffey (1-1) Subs: D Lucey, D Rice, S Henigan, E O'Keefe, B Curran, D Griffin, A Sheehan, C Cronin The team would like to thank all the "ladies" for party in the club house after the game If you need any item included in these notes please contact local correspondant Michelle Cooper Galvin 064 37707 or email coopergalvin@eircom.net FOSSA ROWING CLUB: Weather is warmer, evenings are longer and the rowing clubs are becoming active on the lake again. We want to encourage everyone to take up rowing at their local club, or to call to the shore to offer their support and encouragement. The more people involved, the better the atmosphere at Killarney Regatta (3rd July). Men or women, young or old, interested in beginning should call to the Fossa shore at 10 a.m. on Sunday or call Connie Daly 087-6317157 for other training times. There are 14 races on the card, for men and women, so plenty of seats to fill. This year the club are entering a crew for the „Cork Ocean to City Race‰. It is a race open to all fixed seat, traditional type boats. Over 200 entries of various boat types from Ireland , England , France and other countries are expected. It takes place on Saturday 4th June starting in Crosshaven and travelling 17 miles by sea to Cork City This is a unique event and it is expected that there will be a large crowd travelling. Anyone interested in travelling should inform a club member to give us an idea of numbers. Travel details will be announced closer to the date. LOTTO: This weeks lotto draw took place in The Climbers Inn on Monday night. The jackpot was ? 1,700. Numbers drawn: 5 13 17 23 Consolation Prizes: ?80 James McMahon, Coolroe ?50 Joe O'Connor, Riverside ?30 Padraig Horan, Riverside ?20 Emma Jane O'Connor, Avenue Drive Next weeks draw will take place in The Red Fox. The closing date for payment of club membership is 31st May. GAA: The seniors recorded a good win in the Co League against Brosna last weekend. They dominated for long periods of this game but allowed Brosna back into it due to the lack of scores and unforced errors. HT score 1-4 apiece. A similar pattern developed in the second half and it was only in the last ten minutes that the dominance was made pay. However a victory away from home is always a good sign and the overall team performance was encouraging. Final score 2-10- to 2-5.Scorers: D O'Sullivan 1-8(6 frees), E Courtney 1-0, M Griffin & R O'Connor 1pt each. O'Sullivan Cup Glenbeigh/Glencar "v" Laune Rangers next weekend. Co Junior League (B). Glenbeigh/Glencar "v" Skellig Rangers on Friday May 27th @ 8pm in Portmagee Tickets are now on sale for the fundraising night at the dogs on July 9th @ EUR5 each. This will be a family evening for all, with entertainment for the children laid on. A limited number of greyhounds are also on sale at EUR50 each. Each race winner will receive a weekend away for two. Membership closes on the 31st May. No further extensions will be allowed. Ticket allocation for Kerry's games in Munster and the All-Ireland qualifiers will go to members only. COMMUNITY GAMES: The following are the results of the athletics finals which were held on Friday, May 13. Girls U8 60m - Danika o’Grady, Isabel Moore, Laura Sheehan; U8 80m - Stephanie Sheehan; U10 100m - Lorna Griffin, Jesse Griffin, Amie Griffin; U12 100m - Kaelin Fox, Emer Moore; U14 100m - Courtney Riordan, Lisa Sheehan, Sara Griffin, Aine Teahan; U12 600m - Sabrina Sheehan. Boys U8 60m - Caoilte Purcell, Caolim Teahan, Michael Murphy; U10 100m - Calvin Teahan, Daniel Da Silva, Connor Blunt; U12 60m - Daniel Griffin; U14 100m - Gary Griffin, Cathal Griffin; U14 600m - Michael Griffin, Liam Griffin. All the above competitors have qualified for the county athletics finals which will be held in Tralee on June 19 and 20. Anyone wishing to travel to Tralee could you please contact Anne on 087 2378359 for further details. Also well done to Sara Griffin who was placed fourth and received a certificate at the Community Games County Judo finals which were held at Arús Padraig, Killarney on Thursday, May 19. DOWNS SYNDROME: Ice cream for Down’s Syndrome on this Thursday, May 26, at GAA Grounds. After football training ?2 per serving. Everyone welcome. Look forward to your support for this worthy cause. ROSE COMPETITION: Well done to Saoirse Riordan, Curraheen, Glenbeigh who was the FEXCO representative for the Kerry Rose competition at the Brandon Hotel on Saturday night last. Saoirse looked beautiful and certainly did Glenbeigh very proud. Well done Saoirse, you sang Caledonia beautifully and looked stunning. WEDDING: Congratulations to Anna Milcher, Australia and Kevin O’Shea, Ballinakilla, Glenbeigh who were married in the Cathedral, Killarney on Friday last. SYMPATHY: The club wishes to offer our deepest sympathy to the family of Mrs. Julia O’Shea of Baraduff on their recent loss. LOTTO: Lotto Draw was postponed as a mark of respect to the O’Shea family on their recent loss and now will be held at the Curraglass on Wednesday the 25/5/05, Jackpot ?3,200. Yearly Lotto Draw: Will begin from the 25/5/05 draw. We would like to thank all who were involved in calling to the homes of the parish in order to promote the yearly lotto scheme and to the parish for your continued support. There will also be a draw on the 25/5/05 for fully paid up members for ?100. EXECUTIVE MEETING: There will be a club executive meeting on Thursday the 26/5/05 at 9pm at the hall. SENIOR KERRY Team 2005: The race for Sam Maguire will begin for Kerry away to Tipperary on Sunday the 29/5/05. We wish Seamus and the team the very best in the campaign. We hope to see them in Croke Park come September to contest for Sam once again. County League – Division 3: The seniors game fixed for at home to John Mitchels on Saturday the 21/5/05 was postponed as a mark of respect to the O’Shea family and will be fixed to a future date. The senior’s next league game will be away to Lispole on the 5/6/05. East Kerry – O’Donoghue Cup: Our seniors have been drawn against Currow away in the first round of the O’Donoghue cup; date has been re-fixed for Wednesday the 1/6/05 at 8pm. East Kerry – O Sullivan Cup: Our seniors have been drawn against Listry at home in the first round of the O’Sullivan cup, date has been fixed for Tuesday the 14/5/05 at 7pm. East Kerry Junior League – Division 2: We played Kilcummin in the semi final on Tuesday the 17/5/05 at Gneeveguilla, and had a great win, the final score Glenflesk 0.15 to Kilcummin 0.07. We will now meet Legion in the Final on Tuesday the 24/5/05 in Fossa at 8pm. County Junior League – Division 4 South: We were at home to Dromid Pearses on the 20/5/05, final score Glenflesk 1.06 Dromid Pearses 1.16. There is no league game on this coming Friday. Under 16 East Kerry League - Division 3: Congratulations to our under 16’s who won the Division 3 East Kerry League by defeating Gneeveguilla in their final game. This game was omitted from our previous notes. A lot of these lads will be sitting Junior Cert exams soon and will be back on the playing fields towards the end of June competing in the County League. Under 14 East Kerry: Our under 14’s are away to Fossa in their first outing which is to be played on Wednesday the 25/5/05 at the revised time of 6pm. Under 12 County League 2005 - Our game at home to Currow fixed for Sunday the 22/5/05 was postponed as a mark of respect to the O’Shea family for Tuesday the 24/5/05 at 7pm, this is the final game of their group and victory for the under 12’s will ensure that they finish in with the top teams of their league. Note: Parents should check with team trainers to verify all underage fixtures. Coiste nOg - Underage Training & Games We would like to thank Beaufort Coiste nOg and congratulate them on a very well organised evening for our underage boys and girls. There were games arranged for the boys under 8’s, 10’s and our girls. This was our first outing of the year and was thoroughly enjoyed by the players, trainers and parents. Football: There is no training for boys under 8’s & 10’s as matches have been arranged for the Boys Under Age Football on Saturday the 28/5/05 at home to Macroom at 11.30am, for Boys Under 8’s and under 10’s. Training for Girls continues on Fridays at 6.30pm. Hurling: Training for under 10 Hurling on Thursday @ 7pm. Club Kits: Anyone who has ordered Glenflesk jerseys, shorts & socks are now available by contacting Mary O’Brien or Mary Kelly. Notes: Congratulations to Ciaran O’Mahony who will travel with the Kerry schoolboy’s team to Tipperary this Sunday for the senior game. The club would like to wish all those who are involved in College exams the very best of luck over the next few weeks and those who are recovering from injury a speedy return to the playing fields. COMMUNITY GAMES - All-Ireland Gold - Congratulations to Glenflesk Under 13 Project team, representing Co. Kerry, who won the gold medal in the Community Games All-Ireland Projects Competition on Saturday 21 May, at Mosney. Their theme was "The Comunity Games and a healthy life-style" which is quite topical at present. They had done a lot of research on this and prepared a model and posters. They also had to use their presentational skills to explain their findings to the judges. The winning team was Helena O'Donoghue, Julianne Crowley, Maria Buckley and Olivia O'Connor. Congratulations also to the Over 15 team who got the silver medal and the Under 15 team who came fourth in their respective categories. These teams also put in a lot of effort. The Over 15 team members were Sheena Healy, Cait O'Sullivan and Evelyn Moynihan and the Under 15 team comprised Eanna O'Sullivan, Ann Culloty, Geraldine Culloty and Rachael Garrett. Thanks to the team managers who guided them so well, Martina Dineen (Under 13), Mary Moynihan (Over 15) and Marie O'Doherty (Under 15). Gneeveguilla EK U21 FINAL: Gneeveguilla 1-11, Rathmore 0-7. Gneeveguilla had an excellent win over Rathmore at Lewis Road, last Tuesday. Trailing by two points at half time, Gneeveguilla turned it around in the second half with a great display, both defensively and up front. It could have been worse at half time had Adrian O’Connell not made a superb save to deny Rathmore a goal. Gneeveguilla introduced Barry O’Leary at corner forward and he was to make a big contribution with three points from play. The crucial score however came when Sean O’Connor picked out DJ O’Connor who cracked a low shot to the net. This was followed with a great point from Michael Murphy who ran through from midfield. Gneeveguilla used possession well and had further points from Aengus O’Leary, Barry O’Leary and Danny O’Sullivan. Sean O’Connor was outstanding and helped his backline to dominate in the final 15 minutes. Patrick McCarthy, Conor Hickey, Paudie Brosnan and Shane Dillane made some vital interceptions throughout. Danny O’Connor and Michael Murphy were also outstanding, especially when they switched positions. Full back Brendan Sheehan was one of our best players and dominated the square for the full time. Gneeveguilla closed out the game well with good play in the middle of the field from Tommy Murphy, Michael Murphy, Gerard Moynihan and Aengus O’Leary and as stated, added the vital scores up front. This was a great win for everyone in the Club and great praise must go to Donie Sheehan (trainer) and Mossie O’Donovan and Moss O’Keefe (selectors). It was also pleasing for Denis Donnelly and Shane Dennehy to win East Kerry medals playing their final U21 game. They are the only two players overage next year. The remainder of the team including substitutes, Eugene Kelliher, Donagh Murphy and Michael Carroll, who all played in earlier rounds, are available again next year. After the game the cup was presented to captain Gerard Moynihan. Team: A O’Connell, C Hickey, B Sheehan, M Murphy, S Dillane, D O’Connor, P McCarthy, M Murphy (0-2), T Murphy, S O’Connor, A O’Leary (0-2), G Moynihan (capt), D O’Sullivan (0-3), DJ O’Connor (1-1), D Donnelly. Subs: B O’Leary (0-3), P Brosnan, S Dennehy, M Carroll, E Kelliher, D Murphy. SENIORS: Gneeveguilla made it five wins from five in the county league with a good display against St Pats on Saturday last. Final score Gneeveguilla 1-15, St Pats 1-7. A goal from DJ O’Connor midway through the first half put Gneeveguilla on their way to victory and with further points from Michael Murphy, Danny O’Sullivan and Ronan McAuliffe. Gneeveguilla led at half time 1-7 to 1-2. Further points from DJ O’Connor, John Brosnan, Michael Murphy and Ronan McAuliffe in the second half ensured Gneeveguilla a 100pc record in the county league. This was a good team performance although. UPCOMING FIXTURES: Gneeveguilla v Scartaglin in the first round of the O’Donoghue Cup on Thursday, June 2, at 8pm. JUNIORS: Gneeveguilla had a good win over Austin Stacks on Friday last in Round 2 of the junior league on a scoreline of Gneeveguilla 1-12, Austin Stacks 0-6. A good goal from Denis O’Leary and points from Matthew O’Connor, Adrian O’Connell, Sean Og o’Leary, Timmy O’Leary and Sean O’Keefe gave Gneeveguilla comfortable victory. Gneeveguilla play St Marys in Round 3 on Friday at 8pm, in Cahersiveen. GYM MEMBERSHIP: One years membership is ?100, paid before Monday, June 6. Opening hours Monday to Friday 7 to 10.30pm; Wednesday and Friday mornings, 11am to 12.30. Tel 56071, 56128. LOTTO: The jackpot of ?3200 was not won on Sunday last. The numbers drawn were 1, 7, 21, 23. Lucky dip winners were P Brosnan, c/o Liebherr; Niall O’Leary, Leam; John F O’Riordan, Annaghbeg; Breeda McAuliffe, Village; Jane and Tadhg Collins, Village. Entered for weekend away is Eleanor O’Leary, Maughantourig. Jackpot is ?3400 on next Sunday night. GNEEVEGUILLA AC: Lotto - There was no winner of our weekly lotto. The numbers drawn were 6, 9, 18, 23. Lucky dips ?50, Laura Fleming, Scartaglin and Timmy Brosnan, Tureenamult; ?30 each to Eugene Moynihan, Boherbue; Christy Murphy, Coom Upper and David O’Connell, Tureen. The bonus was not won. The numbers were 10, 16, 19 and 24. The jackpot next Friday, May 27, is ?6600 with bonus ?1000. Our athletes did very well in Mosney. Congratulations to Donal Maher, Gavin Crowley, Christopher O’Leary, Niamh Joy and Aisling O’Leary all brought mementoes from the cross country circuit. Well done. Well done also to all our athletes who won in Riocht and Rathmore Sports. Next Saturday our athletes are busy again competing in the county school sports in Riocht Track on Saturday and Munster Masters Track and Field is in Riocht Track on Sunday where Gneeveguilla defend their title as top Masters Club in Munster. Hope we can win it again. WE are hoping for some new sellers to come forward to our lotto. Its very had work with so few sellers. We need people to put their shoulder to the wheel as regard selling tickets. Its no bother only get a book of tickets and ask those around you to buy a ticket, just like that. 
