middle east
{ SIMON JENKINS 
    September 07 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/west-does-nothing-and-people-die-26137690.html }
OK, CHAPS. Forget Kosovo. Ignore Dagestan. As for Sierra Leone, Congo or Angola...never heard of them. The atrocity of the month is East Timor. It was boring at first. The Indonesians had merely spent two decades murdering a third of the local population. Now we hear of "headhunters" roaming palm-lined beaches, television cameras have arrived and white men are at risk Those of us who covered the fall of the Portuguese empire thought that the 1975 seizure of East Timor by Indonesia was an outrage. The United Nations declared the seizure illegal and did nothing. Third World imperialism was permissible. East Timor, with just 750,000 people, was recognised de facto as part of Indonesia, with 200 million people. Faced with subsequent evidence of the massacre of the province's 90pc Catholic population, the "international community" did not stand idly by. It armed the Jakarta regime of President Suharto with, among other weapons, British ground attack aircraft. The World Bank blew millions of dollars backing Suharto's "transmigration" programme. Under the devastating reign of Robert MacNamara at the bank, $1bn was spent upheaving seven million people to "Javanise" the Indonesian archipelago. Muslims were sent to colonise East Timor, bringing the methods of Joseph Stalin to the land of Joseph Conrad. Australia, just 400 miles from the island, said nothing. When East Timor's Catholic bishop, Carlos Belo, pleaded with the UN in 1989: "We are dying as a people and a nation", he was told to shut up and fobbed off with a Nobel Peace Prize If ever world intervention had a leg to stand on, it was in East Timor. This is not hindsight. Everything that is happening now has been happening for a decade. Diplomacy, insofar as it had been tried, has failed to restore East Timor's (albeit brief) territorial integrity. Military force would have been easy to deploy from Australia, and resistance from the alien Indonesian army would not have been long sustained. UN troops would have had to stay long-term, but that is true of many other policed conflicts, such as Cyprus, Lebanon, Cambodia and Bosnia. More to the point, there was a blatant humanitarian catastrophe. Some 250,000 people, or a third of the 1975 population of East Timor, were estimated to have been killed by Indonesian troops. This was one of the few places on earth whose population was declining due to genocide, far worse than Bosnia or Kosovo. Yet for a quarter century there has been silence. The reason is that Western interests in Indonesia are huge. It is now the world's fourth biggest state. Europe and America have too many arms sales, too much investment and too much tied aid to make a casus belli of East Timor independence. As with China and Tibet, bigness vitiates moral outrage. British ministers, from David Owen in the 1970s to George Robertson's arms salesmen today have appeased Jakarta in the cause of trade. As in the Middle East and Yugoslavia, UN resolutions are enforced only where expedient. Far from being a textbook case for new interventionism, East Timor has been a textbook for the old realpolitik. When this year a stuttering democracy appeared to emerge in Jakarta, the civilian government surprised everyone by accepting a UN-monitored referendum for East Timor. I have read not one expert on the region who believed that the outcome would be peaceful. The army on the island was corrupt and had defied UN authority for 24 years. It had lost 20,000 soldiers in civil war and committed acts for which war crime is too kind a term. To think that this army would pack up and leave was shockingly naive. Yet UN staff were sent to monitor this heart of darkness without a gun between them. They should not have gone. As in Srebrenica, UN monitors are latter-day Gordons of Khartoum. They are sent into dangerous places on impossible missions to honour the moral posturings of Western governments. Send Gordon to Khartoum, goes the cry, but no troops. When he is butchered, the cry is: "Send Kitchener, but with no money." The mob does not want democracy from its intervention. It wants heroism on the cheap. At this point I hear the dread question, so what would you do instead? You cannot stand idly by when such butchery is taking place "on television". Are not people's heads being chopped off and being put on stakes? Are you going to let this happen? Something must be done. No it must not. Perhaps the time has come to revive the International Brigade, of Spanish civil war fame. All who demand that "something be done" can sign up and do it or at least raise money for doing it. Such intervention should be privatised. Shovelling our consciences on to government, let alone onto the indecisive UN, is not good enough. For a quarter of a century the West has recognised Indonesian authority over East Timor. If we wanted to change tack and insist on independence, we should have ensured that the referendum was policed and militarily enforced. We did not. We did not care that much. Now people are being massacred on the beaches as a result. I am all for the self-determination of small states where it can be attained and secured. But Western support for that concept, when limited to hot air, is a catastrophe. It just kills people. Better by far to leave separatists to their own devices. They have their freedom fighters. They have their guns. Our politicians would be better to stay at home and send a large donation to the Red Cross. That at least might save lives.  The Times, London 
