middle east
{ Barry Egan 
    August 20 2017 07:59 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/this-mans-life-hail-mary-of-monkstown-as-the-sherry-trifle-saves-me-from-the-sea-36049358.html }
life is essentially comic. (With an undernote of sadness.) Ask the saintly woman who has to put up with me on a daily, tragicomic basis. She Who Must Be Obeyed, aka my wife. I'd like to think the aforesaid saint Aoife thinks I'm funny. Funny ha, ha. Not funny peculiar Though recently I have been more of the latter. Not certifiably mad peculiar, I hope you understand - just more of a mopey, moaning ninny, cantankerous bastard than usual. In fairness, I'm not usually a self-regarding creature of infinite melancholy. Only lately. I'm turning 50 next month. I feel like I am tilting ever-so-slowly towards the grave. Or at least tilting towards being a grumpy middle-aged man with a bald patch that grows as remorsefully as his existential ennui. Worse, I don't feel I have learned anything with age. If anything, like most people perhaps, I make the same mistakes again and again.  Any denial I might harbour about not being middle-aged - or just old - will be removed forever when my wife and daughter Emilia wish me happy birthday on September 26. I can't but be middle-aged at 50 years of age, can I? An age when you suddenly start to see merit in Simone de Beauvoir's prophecy: "If you live long enough, you'll see that every victory turns into a defeat." In truth, I knew I was definitely and irrevocably middle-aged last month when, after U2's show at Croke Park, I was invited to the band's party in Temple Bar; and I went home to my wife (who can't stand U2 - if they were playing a concert in the back garden, she'd draw the curtains)  and child instead. I am sure U2 didn't really want me there, and I'm quite sure my wife and child would have preferred I had stayed out at the party afterwards for the numbing nonsense I talked about U2 when I got home. But that's beside the point. The point is, the younger me would have gone and talked to Bono until the sun came up. The decidedly middle-aged me, however, was not chewing the ear off Bono until dawn. The decidedly middle-aged me was tucked-up bed in Ballintyre at 11pm, having gone gormlessly gentle into that good night. It was like I was a different person when I woke up not having been out on the town with Bono, The Edge, Adam and Larry.  I also understood something about myself when we went to the beach at Dunmore East last week on holidays. I changed into my swimming togs, ran James Bond-like towards the sea fully intending to go for a swim; only to turn around, and run out again because the water was cold. (Dunmore East is so posh that you'd think they'd have got the sea heated, wouldn't you?) A sense of defeat washed over me: that I would never really be one of those men who run into the cold sea and wave to their wife and child as they thrash heroically about in the waves. I accepted that I was not born to be a hero. Yet as Flannery O'Connor said, "The truth does not change according to our ability to stomach it."  Later that evening, my daughter and her wuss of a father went swimming in the warm pool at Faithlegg House Hotel in Waterford. Later that evening still, her nearly 50-year-old dad, at dinner with her beautiful mother Aoife, in the hotel, drank some fine wine and ate too much food and dessert and then had a beer in the bar as a nightcap. To paraphrase the late John Mortimer, I refuse to spend my life worrying about what I eat; there is no pleasure worth foregoing just for an extra three years in the geriatric ward. I thought I had gotten over the non-swimming moral debacle in Dunmore East when last Sunday my mother-in-law Mary invited us all to afternoon lunch at her house in Monkstown.  Being the Nigella of Monkstown, she put on a spectacularly sumptuous spread of roast beef with all the trimmings followed by sherry trifle and wine.  It was all going smoothly - so smoothly that I hadn't got the heart to ask her could I put on the Man United v West Ham game on the telly before the trifle was served - until she asked would I like to go to The Forty Foot in nearby Sandycove for a swim after dessert. I cast around in my head for an excuse not to go swimming in the freezing sea before suggesting we go for a nice walk around Monkstown village instead.  We took turns at pushing the baby in her buggy. We decided we would light a candle in the local church on our travels. "Let's go see Holy God in his house," as we told Emilia. Unfortunately, the doors of Holy God's house were locked. Had the priest not gone home for his well-earned tea, I could have knelt down in the church and asked Holy God to give me strength in turning 50 - or to give me strength in case the mother-in-law Mary asked me again to go swimming in The Forty Foot. God smiled on me last Sunday because she didn't. We walked home for second (or was it third?) helpings of her celebrated sherry trifle instead. Hail Mary of Monkstown. Sunday Independent 
