middle east
{ FREEMAN 
    September 12 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/crh-is-jeopardising-its-middle-east-opportunity-26073892.html }
FREEMAN was coincidentally in Cairo last Monday when Foreign Minister Brian Cowen arrived to meet the Egyptian President. We were surprised at the extent of knowledge about Ireland generally and the official delegation in particular. Politics and business are inextricably linked in the Middle East. An hour before the World Trade Center attack, I heard the Secretary General of the Arab League warning that the region was "two or maybe one step away from catastrophe". The Egyptians were exasperated at what they saw as Israeli intransigence and American unwillingness to take a balanced approach to the conflict. They saw the Irish as maybe the only group without a complicated agenda, which might be listened to in Washington. They see Brian Cowen and his mandarins as "sufficiently shrewd to identify the machinations of vested interests, while prepared to take decisive action", citing his intervention in securing the safety of three Irish suspects in Colombia as an example. Many Dublin eyebrows will be raised at such appreciation of the Minister's diplomacy. Meanwhile, CRH is again finding the going heavy in its efforts to get into the Egyptian market. Its bid to acquire the Egyptian state-owned cement maker, Helwan, has failed. CRH is highly regarded internationally and would normally be a natural for such a privatisation. CRH is exactly the sort of profitable and focused industrial group, from outside the Arab world and the US, which Egypt is now targeting. CRH has the technology Helwan lacks. On past Co. Louth performance regarding its magnesite operation, CRH would shut or convert moribund refractory plants. The Egyptian government realises this is necessary, but doesn't want to take blame for the disruption. Arabs are ordinarily relaxed about bureaucratic details. In Freeman's experience, bid deadline extensions are routine. So why the sudden and mysterious official reluctance to accept allegedly late bids from CRH and Portugal's Semapa? One Jesuit-educated Egyptian magnate, who has visited Ireland, explained: by investing first in Israel's Nesher Cement, CRH embarrassed its Egyptian friends. "The Palestine conflict is not ours and we have nothing against Israel per se, but Nesher's building products are being used to construct settlements in occupied land in contravention of UN Security Council resolutions." Institutions participating in CRH's $750m bond offer have been told that the Middle East is a priority growth area. Many were surprised at CRH's failed bid for Suez Cement. Now there is a second unsuccessful bid. CRH is guilty of breathtaking naivete which has impoverished shareholders. Very few of Ireland's golden circle of serial directors have any knowledge of Middle Eastern sensibilities. Arabs are tolerant of international investors whose diverse subsidiaries work in incompatible countries. But the ill-timed and overly-advertised Israeli investment is jeopardising what remains, despite recent events, an excellent Middle Eastern opportunity. 
