middle east
{  
    June 04 2010 03:51 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/breaking-news/irish-news/call-for-unity-over-gaza-violence-26659361.html }
The United States and European governments who helped build the Irish peace process should redouble their efforts to end violence in the Middle East, the Northern Ireland Assembly has heard. The Stormont legislature met in a special sitting to discuss the controversy surrounding the Israeli blockade of Gaza. But a large part of the debate was dominated by unionist claims that the discussion was merely a publicity stunt and should not have taken place. Two independent members of the Assembly forced the unscheduled sitting by using rules which allow such a move with the support of at least 30 elected representatives. Politicians debated a motion noting that Nobel Laureate Mairead Corrigan Maguire from Belfast was in the flotilla seeking to deliver aid to Gaza, and which called for Israel to end its blockade of the region. Gerry McHugh, one of the two Independent Assembly members who had forced the debate, said: "We know from our own history that dialogue and discussion leads to a more sustainable and advantageous outcome in the long run. If there is any part of the world that can show how compromise can change hearts and minds, it is here." But Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) representative Peter Weir branded the debate "sad". He said: "From the DUP's point of view, we're not going to join any bandwagon of kicking Israel." Mr Weir noted that Ms Corrigan Maguire had led the Peace People in the mid 1970s, who campaigned against paramilitary violence at the height of the Northern Ireland Troubles.In a rebuke to republicans, he said that if she had been heeded to 30 years ago, lives could have been saved. The nationalist SDLP's Alban Maginness later endorsed the point, but said that if more people listened to the Nobel Peace Prize Winner today, more lives could be saved in the future. Sinn Fein's John O'Dowd backed the motion and said the lessons of the Northern Ireland peace process could be used to help the Middle East. "Surely a message coming from this Assembly to the warring factions in Israel and Palestine and Gaza, that there is an alternative to armed conflict, that there is an alternative to death and destruction and that you can move forward politically, then I think it is a worthwhile debate," he said. Mr O'Dowd added: "To the American government, who was so helpful in our own peace process, I think they too need to hear the message that they must redouble their efforts in the Middle East to ensure that there is peace, and indeed to the European community who has a favourable relationship with Israel." Ulster Unionist Danny Kennedy said he fully accepted the importance of the issues in Gaza and Israel, but he also questioned the merits of the special debate. "We have a Sovereign Parliament to debate the foreign policy of this country," he said. "What we have today is a motion that smacks more of a publicity stunt than a genuine attempt to make progress on this issue." The Alliance Party's Stephen Farry defended the decision to debate the issue and backed the motion, but said simple comparisons could not be made between the Northern Ireland experience and the Middle East. The SDLP's Conall McDevitt also backed the motion, but he noted the complex history of the Middle East dispute, and said Belfast was home to people drawn from both Israeli and Palestinian backgrounds. A vote on the motion will be held in the Assembly on Monday. PA Media 
