middle east
{ Mary Fitzgerald 
    December 31 2016 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/europe/a-crumbling-eu-and-waning-us-means-2017-belongs-to-russia-35331843.html }
After the whirlwind that was 2016, the new year is shaping up to be just as unpredictable as the previous 12 months, with the fallout from shocks like Brexit and Donald Trump's election victory continuing to make itself felt, along with a more assertive Russia and a Middle East still racked by conflict.  Much of 2017's expected unpredictability is down to one man, US president-elect Mr Trump, who before he even enters office next month has jangled nerves with his blunt remarks on sensitive foreign policy issues on Twitter. His cosying up to Russian President Vladimir Putin - at a time when White House incumbent Barack Obama is expelling Russian diplomats amid accusations Moscow interfered in the November presidential election - makes US officials uneasy. Former CIA chief Michael Hayden has described Mr Trump as epitomising the "polezni durak" or "useful idiot" concept from the Soviet era, a naïve person, Mr Hayden says, who is "manipulated by Moscow, secretly held in contempt, but whose blind support is happily accepted and exploited".  Apart from the relationship with Russia, and Mr Trump's dismissive attitude towards pillars of the post-World War II world orders like Nato and the EU, few can hazard a guess at what the incoming president's foreign policy will actually look like. Take him at his campaign rhetoric word and it would appear that he will pull the US out of the Iran nuclear deal and the Paris climate change agreement. Given what he has said and done since his election, it would appear the Mr Trump administration is heading for a collision course with Beijing over trade and Taiwan and a ratcheting of tensions in the Middle East if the US embassy in Israel is moved to Jerusalem, as some of his officials have mooted.  Meanwhile, Europe will not only have to fret over what kind of relationship it might have with Mr Trump; it will face further existential angst with key elections in France, Germany and the Netherlands, amid rising far-right sentiment - often manifesting itself in populist anti-EU platforms - in all three countries. If Marine Le Pen, Eurosceptic leader of France's far-right Front National, wins the French presidential elections in May, it will deal a huge blow to European Union, still reeling from Britain's decision to leave this year.  The hope in Brussels is that the French will play safe and, in keeping with previous elections, ultimately vote to keep the Front National out. But others say nothing can be taken for granted in the current climate where anti-establishment sentiment is rife from the US to Europe. Germany will go to the polls in the latter half of the year and if, by that time, Ms Le Pen is in the Élysée Palace and her Dutch fellow Eurosceptic Geert Wilders is prime minister of the Netherlands, the onus will be on Angela Merkel to not only prevail in the elections but essentially lead an emergency rescue of the EU. The UK will remain consumed by Brexit and what it means for the country in the short and long term. Prime Minister Theresa May will likely stick to her word and trigger Article 50 in the coming months as she promised, though the timeframe could be disrupted by a ruling from the supreme court. Several legal challenges related to Brexit have been lodged, including by Peter Wilding, the man credited with inventing the term Brexit in 2012. In Brussels, views have hardened and British hopes of a 'soft' Brexit are overly optimistic. Brexit was just one of several developments that made Mr Putin happy this year, along with Mr Trump's win and the rise of far-right parties in Europe (some of whom, like France's Front National, receive Russian loans and other support).  A weaker EU would play to Moscow's advantage, something that feeds anxieties within the member states on Russia's hinterland given their Soviet past. Even if Ms Le Pen fails in France, her main challenger from the centrist Republican party, Francois Fillon, is another Russophile. He has backed the Kremlin's stance on Syria since 2012 and fiercely criticised the sanctions imposed on Moscow following its annexation of Crimea. A Fillon presidency would be good news for Mr Putin. The Kremlin's intervention in Syria - where it carried out an extended aerial campaign to bolster its ally President Bashar al-Assad - has emboldened its ambitions in the Middle East. Moscow's recent warming of relations with Turkey - despite being at odds over Syria - together with its growing military co-operation with Egypt and the courting of a wannabe strongman in Libya, show it sees opportunity as US influence in the region declines. From the US under Trump to Europe and the Middle East, 2017 could very well be Putin's year.  Irish Independent 
