middle east
{ Gene Kerrigan 
    July 29 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/welcome-sanity-when-lunacy-is-so-often-applauded-26414624.html }
IT WAS a small act of sanity in a world where lunacy is routinely applauded. Over the past week, the butchery of humans was heralded as peace-making. And the butchers called on their gods to aid them in their work and flaunted their aesthetic sensibilities. Meanwhile, in the Dublin Circuit Court, in an act of reason and decency (not to mention admirable legal sophistication), 12 jurors decided that damaging an aircraft on its way to an illegal war in Iraq was a lawful thing to do. Five anti-war protestors were acquitted of committing a crime - although they admitted they took hammers and a pickaxe on to the tarmac at Shannon in 2003 ("not weapons but tools"), and damaged a US warplane sufficiently to divert it from its warful purposes. It might interest the anti-war protesters to know that it was revealed on Friday that there's a law currently being drafted in Washington that may affect their future. Further acts of humanitarian vandalism could lead to a secret trial in an undisclosed location, where sensible juries will have no part to play. When the Pitstop Ploughshare people tried to physically stop the butchery, most of us sickened by the impending war were too timid - or, as some would say, too sensible - to consider such acts. Maybe we don't have the energy or the commitment or the bravery. We held back, fearing jail or massive fines, a criminal record, perhaps losing our jobs, unable to take a long, stressful period of criminal trials. Perhaps we saw such acts of well-intentioned vandalism as futile or even counter-productive. Two weeks later, shortly before the butchery began, a hundred thousand of us protested in Dublin, thousands more around the country, millions more around the world. None of it mattered, not the damage to the aircraft, not the protests of millions. In Washington and in London, the architects of mayhem had a plan. Their media cheerleaders exulted. By invading Iraq, and showing how easily they could remove a local thug, they would remake the world. They spoke openly of fashioning a "new Middle East", one of peace and democracy. The road to a settlement of the Palestinian issue, they said, lay through Baghdad. Of course, removing a local thug involved bombing the crap out of Iraq, thereby killing uncounted numbers of civilians. But you can't make an omelette without breaking eggs (their omelette, someone else's broken children). To justify the butchery, they brandished the corpses of 3,000 innocent Americans, murdered on September 11, something that had nothing to do with Iraq. The butchers solemnly told us that Saddam was linked to al-Qaeda and had weapons of mass destruction. When we protested they declared us pro-Saddam or anti-American. Three years and four months later, with countless tens of thousands dead, with Iraq spiralling down into ever-lower circles of hell, you might imagine that the architects of mayhem would be somewhat humble and ashamed. Not at all. Last week they announced that they have a plan. It might look like murderous chaos to you and me but, to them, what's happening in Lebanon is another opportunity to create a "new Middle East". They said this with straight faces and not a hint of irony. The road to a settlement of the Palestinian issue, it seems, lies through Beirut. Those currently running the "world's only superpower" believe their own propaganda. Their delusions of omnipotence derive from the knowledge that no one in history has ever had so much firepower. And they've never seen a problem that couldn't be solved by a sufficiency of bombs. Their current mouthpiece, Condoleeza Rice, was sent to the Middle East, to Rome and to Malaysia to preach the new Gospel. Stand back, let Israel destroy Hizbollah and we can then set up a "sustainable" ceasefire, bring in the United Nations canon fodder and stand back while the "new Middle East" prospers. Her mission was to prevent a ceasefire until Israel accomplishes the destruction of Hizbollah, whatever the incidental butchery of innocent Lebanese civilians. (Our government could have had a say - yes, we provide troops for peace-keeping, but not unless there's an immediate ceasefire. We won't be your police force after you've shredded Lebanon. Others might have picked it up. But our Government doesn't offend the powerful.) Rice's mission of violence was portrayed, in our lunatic world, as a peace mission. From Rome, she went on to Malasyia, where she played piano for her hosts - it would be wrong to play "show tunes", she said. So she played a Brahms sonata (in D minor, Opus 108 ), to demonstrate her solemnity. Lunacy. Having pressured others into abandoning a demand for a ceasefire, she prefaced her piano playing with a "prayer for peace". Some think this is cynicism. No, it's more lunacy. In the US last week, even the finding of an ancient manuscript in an Irish bog was widely pressed into service as evidence that God is preparing us for the "End of Days", an imminent conflagration spreading globally from the Middle East, in which the worthy are taken into heaven, while the infidels burn in hell. Without such religious lunacies, neither Christian nor Muslim butchery could be sustained. Eighteen months ago, only 36 per cent of Americans were simple-minded enough to believe that Saddam was connected to 9/11. Last week a poll showed the figure at 50 per cent. The masses, just like the elites, have their own lunacies. Beneath the surface a plethora of forces are manipulating as feverishly as the Americans, the British and the Israelis. Hizbollah takes weapons from Iran and Syria and acts partly on its own account and partly to their bidding. Israel seeks security, but it knows that elements in Washington are hot for a wider war against Iran. Small minds and great hatreds. In the midst of the lunacy, an Irish jury made a sensible decision. The Pitstop Ploughshare people were like citizens who saw a hitman load a shotgun, preparing to unlawfully kill someone. So they smashed his means of transport. And the police came along and charged them with criminal damage. And for three years they were hauled through the courts, while in the background the TV screens flickered with the images of dead bodies. Finally, the defence of "lawful excuse" was properly allowed by the judge and rightly accepted by the jury. Suppose Hizbollah wanted to move Katyusha rockets through Shannon, to murder Israeli children. I have no doubt at all that the Pitstop Ploughshare people would, if they could, try to stop them - however symbolic and ineffectual that intervention might be. And I've no doubt the police would arrest them. And I suppose the Taoiseach would condemn them, as he blackguarded the Shannon Five. On Friday, the Washington Post quoted from a draft law, being prepared to try those the Bush regime regards as "engaged in hostilities". It applies to acts from killing to damaging "protected property". Military Commissions will try suspects. Evidence need not be shown to the accused. The accused need not be present. The trial can be postponed for years. The accused will have a US military lawyer. Hearsay evidence is admissible (and plentiful, when suspects are "rendered" to secret prisons for torture.) The commission can give life sentences - or death. It's credible that future protestors at Shannon could be rendered into such "justice". In such a world, we ought to grasp and celebrate each small act of sanity. 
