middle east
{ Sarah Dadouch 
    January 07 2020 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/middle-east/dark-day-of-revenge-likely-to-come-from-proxy-fighters-38840118.html }
Iran has warned the US to prepare for a "dark day" of revenge after the killing of General Qasem Soleimani - but it remains unclear how and when the regime will retaliate. Analysts say one thing is likely, which is that any response to the US airstrike would be carried out by Iran's large Middle East network of proxies, rather than its own soldiers or spies. The Iranian regime is reluctant to trigger direct confrontation with the US, even though the assassination of Mr Soleimani marks the biggest escalation between the two countries in decades. Since the 1979 Islamic Revolution, Iran has sought to export its values to surrounding countries in the Middle East. The regime relies on so-called proxies, groups that advance Iranian interests in a given region but are not Iranian state apparatus. Mr Soleimani played a key role in building up these proxies as a means of undermining the US presence in the region, with particular success following the 2003 invasion of Iraq. Tehran also views proxies as a deterrent against would-be aggressors, such as Israel and Saudi Arabia. The most influential proxies are based in Lebanon and Iraq, but other groups have sprung up in Syria, Yemen and Gaza. Meanwhile, Iran's supreme leader wept openly over the flag-draped coffin of Mr Soleimani at a vast public funeral in Tehran yesterday as the Islamic Republic mourned the slain general and vowed to avenge his death. Zeinab Soleimani, the general's daughter, told the huge crowd of up to a million people that the US would face "a dark day" when Iran retaliated for her father's death in an American drone strike in Baghdad. "Crazy Trump, don't think that everything is over with my father's martyrdom," she said. "The families of US soldiers in the Middle East will spend their days waiting for the death of their children." Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, normally a stony religious figure, could not hold back tears as he led the crowd in prayers. Some in the crowd burned US flags and effigies of Donald Trump, chanting "Death to America". European foreign ministers are due to hold crisis talks on Friday in response to Iran's announcement it would no longer respect the limits on the production of uranium laid out in the 2015 nuclear agreement. If Iran moves ahead with higher level uranium enrichment and larger scale production it will effectively mean the end of the agreement, which European states have tried to preserve despite pressure from the US. At the invitation of Russian President Vladimir Putin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel will visit Moscow on Saturday to discuss escalating tensions in the Middle East, the Kremlin announced.  German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas is to accompany Ms Merkel. He said yesterday that Mr Trump threatening Iraq with heavy sanctions if US troops are forced to leave is "not very helpful". Russia has been even more critical of the US airstrike which killed Mr Soleimani. Its foreign ministry denounced the move as "reckless", although Mr Putin himself has stayed silent on the issue. He spoke with French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday, and the Kremlin said "both sides expressed concern" and "that this could escalate tensions in the region". Moscow has quietly benefited from Mr Soleimani's death with oil prices spiking.  Now Mr Putin will weigh in on the state of the Middle East, when he meets Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Istanbul tomorrow and then with Ms Merkel. Irish Independent 
