middle east
{ Ruth Sherlock in Beirut 
    September 15 2012 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/middle-east/pope-urges-religious-tolerance-on-trip-to-middle-east-26898219.html }
THE Pope yesterday used his first visit to the Middle East since the Arab Spring broke to warn that religious tolerance should not be lost in the "cry for freedom". Pope Benedict XVI cautioned that the "desire for democracy" and "freedom" were praiseworthy so long as they encompassed religious forbearance. "This is where real moderation and great wisdom are tested. And reason must overcome one-sided passion in order to promote the greater good of all," he said in his opening speech of a three-day tour to Lebanon. Christian and Muslim dignitaries greeted him at Beirut airport to the backdrop of a 21-gun salute. A crowd of young supporters drawn from Lebanon's numerous Christian denominations cheered in the background. Church bells rang out in the country's Christian quarters. Yesterday, the Pontiff referred to himself as a "pilgrim of peace" coming to reconcile Christian and Muslim creeds and promoting calm in an inflamed Middle East. The Pope travelled to the holy Christian mountain village of Harissa, where the Apostle Peter was laid to rest, to convene with the faithful in the Melkite Greek Catholic Basilica of St Peter. More than 15 years since the visit of his predecessor John Paul II, Pope Benedict will have to tread the fine line between addressing the concerns of the region's bishops over the plight of Christians in the Middle East and the Israeli-Palestinian crises, and avoiding igniting the country's simmering community tensions, not least over the civil war in neighbouring Syria. Today, the Pope will meet Lebanese politicians, including members of Hizbollah, deemed a terrorist organisation by the US and Britain. The Pope's call for unity was all the more prescient yesterday, as violent clashes erupted in Lebanon's northern city of Tripoli over the anti-Islam film 'Innocence of Muslims', which ridicules the Prophet Mohammed. (©Daily Telegraph, London) Irish Independent 
