middle east
{ John Reynolds 
    October 06 2019 06:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/clevamama-focuses-on-middle-east-and-10m-sales-target-38565748.html }
Clevamama, a maker of innovative maternity and baby care products, has set a target of €10m in sales by the end of 2021 after establishing subsidiaries and its own distribution operations in the UK and Dubai. The firm is backed by Breon Corcoran, the former CEO of Paddy Power Betfair who currently heads fast-growing UK fintech WorldRemit.  Other investors include former Grafton Group chairman Michael Chadwick, and Paddy Power cofounders John O'Reilly and Stewart Kenny. The company was co-founded by Dublin sisters Suzanne Browne and Martina Craine,  and Browne said that the 16-year-old firm had invested €500,000 recently in a rebrand and relaunch. It is focusing on the lucrative Middle East market, where its products - which include mattresses, pillows and other sleeping aids, as well as play, bathtime and feeding aids - are sold in 10 countries. The products were developed following R&D at Dublin's Trinity College. The firm's workforce is also set to increase from the current 16 to 20 by the end of next year, Browne said, adding that she had taken on three new recruits here in the last nine months. Clevamama sells in 40 countries, with Europe accounting for about half of sales, followed by about 30pc in Asia, 10pc in the Middle East, and 10pc in the US. The UK subsidiary and distribution were established because of Brexit, Browne added. Retailer Mothercare, Amazon, and various other mother and baby stores and independent retailers are among the firm's customers. "Our sales for this year will show growth of about 20pc, and next year the aim is for at least a 15pc increase in revenues," she said. "Our biggest sellers are our bedtime and bathtime ranges. Our products cater for pregnancy, right through to about three-year-olds, and occasions such as baby showers mean that people get to know our brand a bit earlier now, and many of them will stick with our products," Browne said. Sunday Indo Business 
