middle east
{ NATHAN BLUMENTHAL in Rabat 
    July 25 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/funeral-gives-clinton-a-rare-opportunity-to-canvass-peace-26145324.html }
US PRESIDENT Bill Clinton bowed his head at the casket of Morocco's King Hassan on yesterday afternoon, then did some behind-the-scenes Middle East politicking, holding a three-way meeting with Palestinian President Yasser Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak. While his wife Hillary bowed her head at the dead King's coffin at his throne room in Rabat, Clinton took the unique opportunity presented by having the Middle East's leaders together to push his plan for a rejuvenated peace process. While in a large room at the palace where world leaders mingled ahead of the funeral, Clinton talked for about five minutes with Arafat and Barak, a meeting that a White House spokesman called ``animated''. It was the first such meeting since Barak took office on July 6 promising to reinvigorate the Middle East peace process. Afterward, Clinton met Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak privately at the palace shortly before the funeral process began for Hassan. He also talked briefly with Chirac, Jordan's King Abdullah, Israeli President Ezer Weizman, and the leaders of Kuwait and Senegal. SUMMIT HOLD-UP Barak and Arafat had delayed a peacemaking summit planned for Saturday night at the border between Israel and Gaza so they could attend the funeral of Hassan, a longtime behind-the-scenes peace broker in the Middle East. Barak met Clinton at the White House last week during his maiden visit to the United States. The Israeli leader, who is to hold formal negotiations with Arafat tomorrow, has said he wants the Palestinian leader to agree to postpone part of the US-brokered Wye River land-for- security deal while a final peace accord is negotiated. Palestinians have been cool to the idea, saying they want signed peace deals carried out in full. Clinton has urged Barak to implement the Wye deal, but has asked Arafat to listen to the prime minister's ideas. The peace talks were a fitting tribute to Morocco's late monarch who was instrumental in helping forge links between the Arab world and Israel. However, there was disappointment among officials at the last minute decision of Syrian President Hafez al-Assad not to attend. Diplomats had hoped that Assad would use the funeral to hold an unprecedented summit with Barak. HUGE CROWDS The Clintons led a US delegation that included former President George Bush and former Secretaries of State James Baker and Warren Christopher. The Clintons' daughter Chelsea and Mrs Clinton's mother Dorothy Rodham also attended. They were to return to Washington late last night. Later, Clinton was near the front of the procession following the casket as it was driven through Rabat aboard an oversized army jeep. * The leader of Hezbollah guerrillas warned Sunday against being taken in by ``false promises'' of peace by Israel's new prime minister and said guerrilla attacks would not stop for negotiations. He spoke at a rally in Beirut marking the 10th anniversary of the kidnapping by Israeli commandos of Hezbollah commander Sheik Abdel-Karim Obeid from his home in southern Lebanon.  Hours later, Israeli warplanes bombed a valley in southern Lebanon, firing two missiles between the villages of Kabrikha and Majdal Silim, seven kilometers (four miles) west of the Israeli border, Lebanese security officials said. 
