middle east
{ BOB FRIEND 
    July 23 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/peacemaker-king-hassan-dies-26145148.html }
KING HASSAN of Morocco, a Middle East peacemaker who ruled Morocco for 38 years, died last night after suffering a heart attack. The health of the monarch, who celebrated his birthday two weeks ago, had been fragile for some years. King Hassan, a moderate Arab monarch who was on friendly terms with the United States, had long promoted peace in the Middle East.His diplomacy helped bring about the 1979 peace treaty between Israel and Egypt, and subsequent agreements between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, and with Jordan. King Hassan died of a heart attack his eldest son Crown Prince Sidi Mohammed, who will succeed him told the nation in a televised speech. Neighbouring Tunisia announced a period of three-day mourning for the King. King Hassan, who gave counsel to every American president since John F. Kennedy, was lauded by President Bill Clinton as a peacemaker and friend. Former Israeli prime Minister Shimon Peres also mourned the King's death and said Middle East peacemaking had lost one of its greatest supporters. ``He was a visionary, a believer in peace. He supported it, dreamed of it and fought for it,'' said Peres, a personal friend of the King Hassan.``The King was pushing and promoting peace in the Middle East in any manner he could. With his passing we lose one of the most experienced and wisest leaders that this region has enjoyed in the last half century. ``For me personally, I am losing a very dear friend,'' Peres, a Nobel peace laureate and minister of regional development in new Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak's government, said. ``He had a deep feeling and knowledge for the Jewish people and the Jewish people admired him,'' Peres pointed out.  King Hassan was a discreet but key mediator in the Middle East peace process whose contacts with Israeli leaders led to the 1978 peace accord between Egypt and Israel. He also formed low-level ties with Israel in 1994. 
