middle east
{ By JOHN WHELAN 
    October 12 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/shares-tumble-as-middle-east-crisis-deepens-26106582.html }
THE Dow Jones industrial average plunged 379 points last  night in New York, nearly dropping below 10,000, as the violence in the Middle East and soaring oil prices  compounded worries about weak company profits. The oil price rise fuelled fears here that inflation could rise above 7pc. ``In an already nervous market, this is all we didn't need,'' said Al Goldman, an analyst with AG Edwards and Sons Inc in St Louis. ``A terrorist attack, increased hostilities in the Middle East and a spike in oil prices shake it all up and you get blind dumping of stocks.'' Bill Barker, an investment consultant with Dain Rauscher, said: ``The market does not do well on uncertainty, and this Middle East thing is pretty uncertain and not at all predictable.'' The apparent terrorist attack on a US military ship in Yemen sent oil prices up as much as 10pc, fuelling inflation fears. Oil prices reached $37.00 a barrel at one point on the New York Mercantile Exchange, nearing its recent 10-year high of $37.80 a barrel. Crude futures closed at $36.06, up $2.81. World stock markets fell sharply on the news of the violence, a move which will put further pressure on the severely weakened euro. The European Central Bank is likely to increase interest rates again in an effort to curb inflationary pressures, economists said last night. In its monthly bulletin released last night, the ECB highlighted its concern that inflationary expectations and wage rises need to be controlled. Even before yesterday's oil price surge, it warned that if energy prices do not decline significantly, it will take some time before inflation returns to below 2pc. A combination of rapidly rising oil prices, a weak euro and likely further rises in mortgage rates could see Ireland's inflation figure rise well above the 7pc peak currently predicted. This would throw the current pay deal the Programme for Partnership and Fairness into further disarray, with unions already clamouring for pay rises above the 5.5pc agreed. Meanwhile, the Nasdaq composite index last night fell to its lowest close this year, extending a post-Labour Day slide dominated by fears that technology companies aren't growing fast enough to justify lofty stock prices. Home Depot led the Dow's decline, its fifth-largest point drop ever, after the retailer became the latest blue chip company to warn it would not meet third-quarter expectations. The Dow closed down 379.21, or 3.6pc, at 10,034.58, the lowest it has been since March. Broader markets also fell. The Nasdaq composite closed down 93.81 to 3,074.68 its lowest close of 2000. The Standard and Poor's 500 index tumbled 34.81 to 1,329.78. In currency markets, sterling strengthened because the currency was seen as a safe haven. Sterling closed near a record at 58.8 euros. 
