middle east
{ Phil Reeves in  Jerusalem 
    January 03 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/clintons-final-push-for-peace-in-middle-east-faces-abject-failure-26098367.html }
TALKS between Yasser Arafat and Bill Clinton, which had  seemed dead even before they began, were underway at the  White House last night as the US President made his last  desperate effort to achieve a peace deal in the Middle East and possibly avert a war. The summit was shrouded in gloom even before it began, with little hope of Mr Clinton getting the foreign policy triumph that he sought to crown his presidency. President-elect George WBush expressed his support for the Clinton peace effort for the first time, saying: "He's giving it the very best shot he can, and I certainly hope it works." With only 18 days left in office, Mr Clinton was meeting Mr Arafat against a backdrop of rising tensions in the occupied territories, and another turn in the bloody spiral of bloodshed and collective punishment. The three main players in the process are now hopelessly shackled by domestic events. Slipping in the polls and facing electoral defeat next month, Israel's Prime Minister, Ehud Barak, is losing authority at home by the day. Mr Arafat is under intense pressure to stand firm against Israeli and US pressure. And the clock is running out on Mr Clinton. Although the president was theatrically waving crossed fingers at reporters yesterday before meeting Mr Arafat, his dream of securing a peace deal while in office is all but dead. The pessimistic mood deepened yesterday as Palestinian officials circulated a point-by-point criticism of Mr Clinton's framework deal. A document on the Palestinian Liberation Organisation's website said it failed to satisfy the conditions for a lasting peace, and rewarded Israel for building settlements in occupied territories in defiance of international law. The Palestinian document said the US proposals would divide the Palestinian state into three cantons connected and separated by Jewish-only and Arab-only roads, and jeopardising the viability of the state. It said the plans would also divide Palestinian Jerusalem into several unconnected islands and force Palestinian refugees to surrender the right of return. Nor did the Israelis show much optimism. Complaining that Mr Arafat was negotiating in bad faith, Mr Barak stepped up pressure by instructing his generals to prepare for a possible "lengthy and gradual" unilateral separation and a lengthy regional conflict. That frightening prospect inched closer yesterday as Israel tightened its blockade around Palestinian towns after Monday's car bomb in the Israeli town of Netanya, in which more than 40 people were hurt. Mr Barak said he had cut all contact with Palestinian officials. Even Palestinian "VIPs" are now barred from entering Israel, which sealed borders from the Gaza Strip to Egypt, and the West Bank to Jordan. Yesterday, Palestinians in the Gaza Strip paraded behind yet another coffin this time that of a farmer of 52 shot dead by Israeli soldiers on Monday near the Jewish settlement of Dugit, after two Israeli soldiers were hurt in roadside bombs. Negotiating peace in the Middle East is a dark art, full of bluffs and counter-bluffs. But the fears for the future seemed very real yesterday. These were summed up by a former Israeli negotiator in Oslo, Uri Savir. There is, he said, "a fine line between a great breakthrough and a terrible catastrophe in the Middle East." Independent News Service 
