middle east
{ Conor Sweeneyand Alison O'Connor 
    April 15 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/cowen-pushes-for-united-eu-line-on-middle-east-crises-26008702.html }
EU Foreign Ministers hope to hammer out a common position on the worsening situation  in the Middle East - on Iraq and Israel - when they meet today. The timing of the brainstorming session in Tullamore comes as the EU strives to agree  common positions on both conflicts, particularly in the face of renewed US pressure. EU Foreign Ministers hope to hammer out a common position on the worsening situation in the Middle East - on Iraq and Israel - when they meet today. The timing of the brainstorming session in Tullamore comes as the EU strives to agree common positions on both conflicts, particularly in the face of renewed US pressure. US President George W Bush wants the UN to take a strong role in rebuilding Iraq after sovereignty is handed over on June 30. Many European countries are reluctant to become embroiled there while the situation remains volatile. With 13 of the 25 current and future member states already providing troops in support of the US force, there is also a division on the role Europe, through the UN, should play. Foreign Minister Brian Cowen yesterday day condemned the murder of an Italian hostage by Iraqi terrorists. With EU countries including France and Germany urging all their nationals to leave Iraq, they are offering little backing for any fresh assistance. Mr Cowen is also seeking to prevent any open split in EU reaction to the latest US backing for Israel. Along with the UN, Russia and the US, the EU is part of the so-called quartet that has supported the deadlocked road map towards a Palestinian state. There was considerable concern in many European capitals yesterday that President Bush's support for a unilateral Israeli evacuation from Gaza and pledges to keep other West Bank settlements would undermine any remaining hopes of a deal. Mr Cowen said he welcomed the decision by Israel to pull out of Gaza and acknowledged this could be significant. He also restated Europe's strong belief that only through negotiations can the border question be agreed on a Palestinian state. This was a very different view from that of President Bush, who conceded Israel would be allowed keep some West Bank settlements on land that was destined to form part of the Palestinian state. There was domestic criticism of his stance, which Labour's Foreign Affairs spokesman Michael D Higgins described as ambiguous and a disgraceful abandonment of the road map. "President Bush has acted in a unilateral manner once again, and in so doing has jeopardised the chances of a future settlement. This should be a matter of deep concern to all people who wish to see a lasting peace develop in the region," he said. Mr Cowen should raise the issue in Tullamore "as a matter of priority", he added. There is a considerable split on the issue, with some states such as Germany very pro-Israel while others are hardening against it and becoming increasing strident in support of the Palestinian Authority. EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana warned Israeli leader Ariel Sharon the future of six million Palestinian refugees cannot be ignored. The EU ministers will also review policy on Kosovo in the wake of recent ethnic tensions in the Balkan province. Fine Gael foreign affairs spokesman Gay Mitchell said the announcement by President Bush he will support the Israelis on key conflict issues was made without consulting the EU. "The EU is part of the Middle East peace 'road map', but we must be more than simply acquiescent, silent partners in this process," said Mr Mitchell. As friends of the US, he said, "we should not be afraid to express ourselves with candour when required". Mr Cowen has said he hoped this weekend's meeting in Tullamore would catapult the Co Offaly town onto an international stage. County council workers have been busy painting, mending road signs and fences and patching roads to get the town looking good. 
