middle east
{ Robert Fisk 
    May 10 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/my-life-is-now-at-the-mercy-of-haters-on-internet--26047790.html }
IT USED to be just a trickle, a drip-drip of hate mail which arrived once  a week, castigating me for reporting on the killing of  innocent Lebanese in Israeli air raids or for suggesting that Arabs, as well as Israelis, wanted peace in the Middle East. It began to change in the late 90s. Typical was the letter which arrived after I wrote my eyewitness account of the 1996 slaughter by Israeli gunners of 108 refugees sheltering in the UN base in the southern Lebanese town of Qana. "I do not like or admire anti-semites", it began. "Hitler was one of the most famous in recent history". Yet compared to the avalanche of threatening letters and openly violent statements that we journalists receive today, this was comparatively mild. The internet seems to have turned those who do not like to hear the truth about the Middle East into a community of haters, sending venomous letters to any reporter who dares to criticise Israel or American policy in the Middle East. There was always, in the past, a limit to this hatred. Not any more. In 26 years in the Middle East, I have never read so many vile and intimidating messages addressed to me. Many now demand my death. And last week, the Hollywood actor John Malkovich did just that, telling the Cambridge Union he would like to shoot me. How, I ask myself, did it come to this? Slowly but surely, the hate has turned to incitement, the incitement into death threats, so that a reporter's life can be made vulnerable by an actor who, without even saying why, says he wants to kill me. Much of this vile nonsense comes from men and women who say they are defending Israel, although I have to say that I have never in my life received a rude or insulting letter from Israel itself. Israelis sometimes express their criticism of my reporting and sometimes their praise but they have never stooped to the filth and obscenities which I now receive. September 11 turned the hate mail white hot. That day, I wrote an article pointing out there would be an attempt in the coming days to prevent anyone asking why the crimes against humanity in New York and Washington had occurred. I wrote about the history of deceit and lies in the Middle East, the growing Arab anger at the deaths of thousands of Iraqi children under US-supported sanctions and the continued occupation of Palestinian land in the West Bank and Gaza by America's Israeli ally. I didn't blame Israel. I suggested that Osama bin Laden was responsible. But the e-mails that poured in over the next few days bordered on the inflammatory. I was, according to Prof Judea Pearl of UCLA, "drooling venom" and a professional "hate peddler." Another missive announced that I was "in cahoots with the arch-terrorist" Bin Laden. If I was in "cahoots" with bin Laden, who was, after all, wanted "dead or alive" by President Bush, and if I was an actual supporter of "evil", where did that leave my life? Since Ariel Sharon's offensive in the West Bank, provoked by the Palestinians' wicked suicide bombing, we reporters are all supposed to be anti-semites unless we heap our condemnation only on the Arabs. Does this kind of attitude have an effect on others? I fear it does. Only days after Malkovich said he wanted to shoot me, a website claimed that the actor's words were "a brazen attempt at queue-jumping." The site contained an animation of my own face being punched by a fist. Thus, a disgusting remark by an actor in the Cambridge Union led to a website suggesting that others were even more eager to kill me. This goes beyond incitement. We are talking death threats. And in a year when one of my own colleagues, Daniel Pearl of the Wall Street Journal, was so foully murdered in Pakistan, death threats have to be taken seriously. The trouble is, there's not much anyone can do about them As journalists, our lives are now forfeit to the internet haters. If we want a quiet life, we will just have to toe the line and stop criticising Israel or America. Or just stop writing altogether. (Independent News Service) 
