middle east
{ Richard Beeston and Katty Kay in Washington 
    April 05 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/israel-defies-bush-as-tanks-swarm-into-west-bank-26050647.html }
AMERICA'S international prestige was thrown into doubt last night when violence spread through the Middle East in  spite of President Bush's personal intervention ... AMERICA'S international prestige was thrown into doubt last night when violence spread through the Middle East in spite of President Bush's personal intervention to try to stop the bloodshed. Israeli forces showed no signs of halting their biggest military operation in two decades with tanks, helicopters and infantry going into action against half a dozen Palestinian towns in the West Bank. The Sharon government was clearly intent on taking full advantage of the time remaining before the US Secretary of State Colin Powell arrives early next week. Violence also erupted on the northern border, where Hezbollah guerrillas fired rockets at Israeli positions as Israeli fighter bombers and artillery struck at positions just outside a Lebanese border. The Lebanese government, trying to stem intensifying clashes along the frontier, said it seized a ready-to-fire Katyusha rocket and arrested half a dozen armed Palestinians. Twenty-two Palestinians were killed overnight and yesterday, among them six Hamas militants, including one accused by Israel of masterminding a suicide bombing that killed 26 Israelis last week. The Islamic group vowed "cruel" retaliation. The Israeli army said one of its soldiers was killed in an exchange of fire in a refugee camp in the West Bank city of Jenin where gun battles raged yesterday. At the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, one of Christianity's holiest sites, a stand-off between Israeli troops and Palestinian gunmen inside continued into a fourth day. Four of about 60 priests trapped in the church came out yesterday and left Bethlehem under Israeli escort, the military said. The only sign of diplomatic progress was a meeting between Mr Bush's envoy, General Anthony Zinni, and Yasser Arafat. However polls showed a soar in support for Israeli prime minister Ariel Sharon's tactics. Opinion polls published yesterday showed 72pc of Israelis supported waging "widescale war" in the West Bank and the current offensive had boosted support for Sharon. Almost a quarter in one poll said they wanted Arafat "eliminated," a euphemism for killing him. Elsewhere in the Middle East, Mr Bush's decision to send General Powell to the region had little effect on calming the "Arab street". In Bahrain, the main base for the US Navy in the Gulf, thousands of demonstrators marched on the American embassy and fought running battles with riot police. Some protesters managed to storm the mission, where they smashed windows and threw firebombs. There were similar scenes in Amman, the Jordanian capital, where security forces clashed with demonstrators attempting to march on the Israeli embassy and evict the ambassador. The continued violence was expected to dominate talks last night between Mr Bush and Tony Blair, who arrived in Crawford, Texas, for a weekend strategy session at the the presidential ranch. The meeting was originally planned to map out the next phase in the War on Terror and discuss action on Iraq. Instead, talks will be dominated by the Middle East and ceasefire proposals. Mr Blair was ready to suggest that the experience of the North's peace process should be used as the basis for a new attempt to break the Arab-Israeli deadlock. Mr Blair was to tell Mr Bush that, as with the North, a series of confidence building measures should be made by both sides as preparation for detailed peace talks. Mr Bush, who has become directly engaged in Middle East peace-making only reluctantly after watching his predecessor try and fail, was clearly not convinced that even with American intervention the bloodshed could be halted. Mr Bush in an interview last night did not criticise Israel, America's closest ally in the region and the recipient of $3bn in annual US aid, but it is clear relations are strained. Mr Bush deliberately did not set out a timetable when he demanded that Israel withdraw its forces from the West Bank. ( The Times, London and agencies) 
