middle east
{ Patrick Bishop in Ramallah and George Jones 
    November 12 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/arafat-death-boosts-hopes-of-new-life-for-middle-east-peace-25885908.html }
YASSER Arafat's body arrived in Egypt last night as cautious hopes were expressed that his death could give new life to Middle East peace moves. After a lavish farewell ceremony in Paris that seemed to accord the Palestinian leader the standing of a venerable head of state, a French military aircraft flew his coffin to Cairo, where he was born 75 years ago and where the funeral will be held today. The French government lavished pomp and praise on Mr Arafat, who died early yesterday. It was clearly seeking to stand apart in the eyes of the Arab world from the Americans, who refused to deal with Mr Arafat. President Chirac praised him as a man of "conviction and courage." As British Prime Minister Tony Blair headed to Washington for talks with President Bush, Downing Street said he hoped to persuade the president to send a "strong signal of intent" to begin a new drive for peace in the Middle East. In the West Bank city of Ramallah, officials moved quickly to fill the power vacuum. In keeping with the constitution, the speaker of the Palestinian parliament, Rawhi Fattouh, was sworn in as acting president and promised elections within 60 days. Mr Arafat's PLO deputy, former prime minister Mahmoud Abbas, was elected chairman to replace him. His emergence produced a faint glow of optimism that attempts might begin to revive a peace plan on hold for three years. Mr Bush described Mr Arafat's death as "a significant moment in Palestinian history." Israeli prime minister Ariel Sharon who spent much of his life fighting Arafat, said his death "could mark a historic turning point in the Middle East." Mr Arafat will be given a military funeral in Cairo. The body will then be flown to the Muqata compound in Ramallah where he will be buried in a concrete coffin in soil from Jerusalem. (© Daily Telegraph, London) 
