middle east
{ Conor Sweeney 
    November 19 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/sharon-sticks-to-his-guns-as-middle-east-unravels-26068255.html }
IMAGINE if Ian Paisley, not David Trimble was the First  Minister in Northern Ireland. Something like that situation now exists in Israel under the hardline Prime Minister, Ariel Sharon. And yesterday he delivered a Paisleyite broadside against the EU and offered no ground whatsoever in his stance over talks with the Palestinians. The comparisons between the Northern Ireland peace process and the Middle East are strong, with even the language of the talks eerily familiar. In this case it's Jews and Muslims, not Protestants and Catholics. But despite the coughs, splutters and regular dramas in Northern Ireland, there is relative peace, whereas the situation continues to unravel in the Middle East. And yesterday the burly Israeli leader displayed the trenchant style that has long been the trademark of Dr Paisley. He rejected pleas from a high-powered EU team that he should relax his conditions to start talks with Palestinians and instead claimed that EU taxpayers' money would be used by the Palestinian Authority to buy weapons to wage war against his country. So far this year, the EU has kept the Palestinians financially alive with over 200m in aid. Individual countries are pouring in money, trying to build a modern infrastructure and society in the West Bank and Gaza that may one day, possibly soon, become an independent state. Ireland, for example has funded textbooks and the development of a curriculum for primary school children. Ireland has also played a vital role on the UN Security Council, according to the EU chief negotiator to the region, Miguel Moratinos. He said Irish diplomats and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Brian Cowen were in constant contact with him from New York, particularly last month when Ireland chaired the Security Council. Following this intensified European effort, Mr Sharon's stance was all the more disappointing. Both the Bush Administration and the EU now accept that rightly or not, Arabs everywhere have an intense sense of grievance over Israel and believe that the West has not been even-handed to both sides. The Middle East mission also represents the most coherent attempt yet by the EU to act and speak with one voice on behalf of all 15 countries. Led by the dynamic Belgian Prime Minister, Guy Verhofstadt and the Commission President, Romano Prodi, the delegation had hoped to gently exert just enough pressure to get the parties back to the table. But like the North, both sides are deeply suspicious of each other. Israel's demands for seven days of total calm from the Palestinians, appears superficially like the kind of pre-condition that the Unionists imposed over decommissioning. And depending on your perspective, it's either a spurious attempt to duck the tough issues or a legitimate request from democratic leaders to protect their electorate. And playing the role of Gerry Adams, the Palestinian leader, Yasser Arafat was described as the source of the current terror campaign against Israel by Mr Sharon. Perhaps a major speech due later today by the US Secretary of State, Colin Powell, can trigger movement from both sides. In the parlance of the North, there are still talks about talks, but without any sign of decommissioning yet on the horizon. 
