middle east
{ Rupert Cornwellin Washington 
    November 27 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/us-cuts-290m-from-loans-in-slap-on-the-wrist-for-israel-25923767.html }
IN ITS clearest signal yet of displeasure with Israel's policies in the West Bank and Gaza, the Bush administration has cut $290m from US loan guarantees to the Jewish state - an  amount corresponding to spending on new settlements in the occupied Palestinian territories. Palestinians have criticised the sum as too small to exert real pressure on the government of Ariel Sharon. Even so it is seen as evidence that after several months of neglect, the White House is responding to pressure from allies in both Europe and the Middle East to re-engage in the region. Separately, a senior American official is believed to have met secretly with the Israeli prime minister in Rome last week to deliver a fresh demand for a halt of settlement activity and of the building of the security barrier through the West Bank. Upon his return to Jerusalem, Mr Sharon said he was considering "unilateral steps" to advance the peace process. Tomorrow moreover, William Burns, the chief US Middle East envoy, returns to the region for the first time since August. Last night, Israeli spokesmen remained defiant. Zalman Shoval, a senior adviser to Ariel Sharon, said they would continue building the controversial security barrier with or without punitive loan guarantee measures. No deduction should be made for the fence "because this is a security matter", he said. But "Israel is prepared to give up money when the subject is defending the lives of its people". The flurry of activity comes as Middle East specialists see a glimmer of opportunity for progress on the conflict, with the installation of a new Palestinian prime minister in Ahmed Qurei, and mounting pressure from within Israel - including criticism from four former intelligence chiefs - on Mr Sharon to change tack. But, experts warn, if it is not seized now, the chance is unlikely to reoccur for some while. "There is once again an opening to end the past three years of warfare," according to Dennis Ross, US Middle East envoy under both Presidents Bush senior and Clinton. "Both sides want to end the war and create a period of calm," he wrote in the 'Washington Post' yesterday. But familiar obstacles remain - most notably,from the US/Israeli point of view, the Palestinian President Yasser Arafat, with whom neither the Bush administration nor Mr Sharon will deal. But Mr Arafat still controls the Palestinian security apparatus, and was powerful enough to force from office Mr Qurei's short-lived predecessor, Mahmoud Abbas. Next week representatives of Hamas and Islamic Jihad are expected to meet in Cairo, to agree a ceasefire, the key Israeli pre-condition for any progress. But further attacks cannot be ruled out. And even if he can persuade the main militant groups to agree a truce, Mr Qurei will only be able to deliver if he can point to reciprocal steps by the Israelis. These will have to include not just an end to the current siege of Palestinian territories and the checkpoints which enforce it, but a halt to construction of the border 'fence' and a suspension of settlement activities. The Palestinian public, Mr Ross writes, must be shown that Mr Qurei and other reformers, can "deliver," by changing Israel's behaviour. In his speech in London last week, President Bush demanded Israeli action in all three areas. Though widely seen merely as a rhetorical gesture to Tony Blair, Washington is now following up by trimming the loan guarantees - though Washington's $3bn a year of direct aid to Israel is not affected. But it is unclear, seen how much political capital Mr Bush will invest in the Middle East ahead of the 2004 election. The strong pro-Israel stance of his administration is highly popular among the Christian right, a key Republican constituency the White House aims to get to the polls in maximum numbers next November. (© Independent News Service) 
