middle east
{  
    January 07 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/shadow-of-the-hawk-over-mid-east-lame-ducks-26246636.html }
Arab insistence on, and Israel's repudiation of, the 'sacred right of the Palestinian exiles to return' has stymied the  quest for peace, concludes Conor Cruise O'Brien PEACE PROCESSES, except those conducted by people who have actually just won a war, tend to be pretty shaky affairs. But the peace process now being feverishly conducted in the Middle East must be the shakiest on record. This peace process is driven by a lame-duck President of the United States, seemingly driven by an urge to have something brilliant to show at the close of his Presidency. And the principal participants in this process, in the Middle East itself, are themselves both lame-ducks. Ehud Barak in Israel is not likely to be President of Israel for much longer. He is likely to be replaced in a month's time by a hawk from the Likud, committed to repudiate whatever he might sign up to. Yasser Arafat is unlikely to be replaced electorally, because they don't go in for free elections in Palestine. But if they did have a free election, Arafat would not win it. He is thoroughly discredited among his own people, and his corrupt associates are loathed. The only politicians who have credit and authority in Palestine are the leaders of Hamas. And these are committed to war against Israel and will automatically repudiate anything that may possibly emerge from the present peace process. The Arab leaders who met last week did indeed give a kind of blessing to the present peace process. But they also attached a formidable string to it in the shape of reaffirming the 'sacred right of the Palestinian exiles to return'. And Israel's neighbours, Syria and Lebanon, are even more insistent on the prompt delivery of the right to return. And the repudiation of that right to return has actually been the main aim of Israel in these negotiations. It is in the hope of that repudiation that Israel has been prepared to offer the large concessions in terms of Palestinian territory that it has put forward in exchange for the abandonment of the claim of right to return. The Arabs cannot now concede that abandonment, and Israel cannot therefore concede the rest of the Arab demand. Even some of those who have argued that Israel should be prepared to make large concessions to the Arabs in exchange for a solid peace, see that the present Arab position is untenable. Thomas L Friedman, in the New York Times last Wednesday, put some pertinent questions, after citing the concessions that Barak had been prepared to offer. Friedman wrote: They [Palestinians] were dealing with an Israeli prime minister [Barak] who was trying to break the cycle and who, at Camp David, had put on the table a sweeping Israeli proposal for a Palestinian State. Violence was not the Palestinians' only resource. How did Mr Arafat respond to Ehud Barak's offer? First, he went on a world tour trying to generate pressure on Mr Barak for more concessions, then he connived at an intefada. What he never did was talk to Israelis. Why should Israel now believe that if they give Arafat a state in the West Bank, when he gets in trouble next time say, because he can't run a modern country he won't trigger another uprising against Israel? It is just conceivable that Barak is counting on the Palestinians to reject anything he may offer. If so, he would be acting on a Machiavellian principle once offered by the greatest of Zionist leaders, Chaim Weizmann. When Weizmann was criticised in Israel for making too generous an offer to the Palestinians he replied: "You will see. They will refuse my offer, and put themselves in the wrong by refusing it. And the offer will have cost us precisely nothing." And the Palestinians behaved in exactly the way he had predicted. But the unfortunate Barak does not possess anything like the massive authority possessed by Weizmann after he had been seen to win the Balfour Declaration. Barak has only succeeded in alarming Israelis and playing into the hands of his adversaries. Polls on Friday predicted a commanding victory for Ariel Sharon in next month's elections in Israel. Sharon was ahead of Barak by 18 per cent in one poll, and by 28 per cent in another. It seems as if Barak can now only save himself by standing down, and accepting a subordinate position in a Sharon government. Against that bleak background, what exactly does President Clinton think he is doing by devoting most of the last weeks of his Presidency to this forlorn quest for peace in the Middle East? Clinton, who is no fool, whatever else he may be, must know that the chances for a successful end to this quest are just about nil. But he may well reckon that many Americans will give him an 'A' for a good try, even if he does fail in the end. And the Middle East is at least a more congenial topic to end on than Monica. 
