middle east
{ Maurice Hayes 
    July 24 2007 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/northern-lessons-will-help-blair-up-to-a-point-26306738.html }
AS TONY Blair takes up his retirement job as Special Envoy for the Middle East Quartet, he may cast his mind back to a dark period on the scene of his former triumphs. A time when the back-streets and housing estates of Belfast suddenly sprouted Israeli and Palestinian flags, and the local tribes sought a proxy for their enmity, protestants as the embattled Chosen People of God, republicans anxious to be associated with world-wide revolution. Mr Blair would be unwise to carry the analogy too far. For one thing, he will be moving from the nursery slopes of conflict resolution off piste and into unknown dangers. Despite the self-centred belief of Northern Ireland people that their conflict is the most splendid of all, more bitter, more long-lasting, more complex, more intractable, it bears little resemblance to the complexity of the issues involved in the Middle East or the intransigence of the parties there. In the wider geo-political sense, too, the North was a pinprick; the world could go on about its business whether a settlement was found or not. The failure to settle the Israeli/Palestinian conflict, Road Map or no road map, could have seismic consequences for peace in the area in the longer run. Each conflict, too, is unique. Each arises out of a heady cocktail of issues, culture, history, politics, religion and environment. Solutions cannot be patented, and are not easily transferable from one conflict to another. Nevertheless there are general principles which can be identified, and it will be these that Tony Blair will be seeking to identify and apply. He will learn, quickly, of a significant change in his own role. He will be exchanging the power of office for the power of persuasion, for what that is worth. He is no longer a principal player, with the leverage of office, and the other parties will know this. He can no longer lean on people or provide inducements, no longer release prisoners or threaten police power. He will no longer have the apparatus of government or the services of a well-oiled machine to pursue back-door entry or to garner intelligence. In the high-decibel arena of international conflict, the one-man-band scarcely gets a hearing. His experience will have told him that in these matters timing is all. People tend to settle when they are ready to do so, when they have run out of alternatives, when the logic of settlement becomes apparent to both sides, and when there are people about who can be talked to, and who can then deliver powerful constituencies. The Middle East may not have reached that point yet - or may have passed it for this time round. Blair, too, will miss his Bertie Ahern and his Bill Clinton. He will have to search for his Gerry Adams and his David Trimble, and ultimately, in Israel, for his Ian Paisley. In the Northern Ireland situation, opposition parties in both Dublin and Westminster were supportive and neighbouring states were on side. The opposite is likely to be true in the Middle East, where much of the trouble is fermented and supported by external actors working to agendas of their own. Most of all, however, he will have difficulty in finding among the fortress mentality of a risk-averse Israeli establishment, a Tony Blair figure willing to seek the compromise or to take the steps which will get even Fattah, not to mention Hamas, into line. With the Quartet, apparently putting all the money on Abbas, and excluding Hamas, the lesson from the North is stark. There is only so far you can go in building up the middle-ground, if that is what it is. If you want to resolve conflict you must, at some stage, involve those who are actually fighting. After a time, you run out of surrogates. The problem for Blair is to separate those in Hamas who would seek political accommodation in a twin-state solution from those committed to the extinction of Israel. NOT everybody who voted Hamas was necessarily supporting terrorism - some may have wanted a more efficient and a less corrupt administration than that offered by the heirs of Arafat. Those who wish to go political must be given the hope of progress by that means. It does not help that when they do vote, they are simply told that they have got it wrong, elected the wrong people, and must do it again. What Northern Ireland will have taught Blair is that you cannot pick leaders for other people, and that those who would talk should be enabled to do so, and that the bomb and the bullet must be removed from the equation. Neither will it be easy for him, as mediator, when Palestinians are subjected to economic sanctions, when employment is virtually denied in Israeli-held areas, when aid is being withheld from Gaza, and the area virtually written-off as irremediably bandit country. Last time round, at Camp David, it was Arafat who blew the chance of settlement. This time the Israelis hold the cards and they seem reluctant to play any of them. This will be Blair's main problem - that and the fact that he is widely seen as the emissary of George Bush - not the best calling card to have when trying to do business in Arab countries. 
