middle east
{  
    July 13 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/robert-fisk-the-voices-of-protest-find-an-unexpected-audience-in-the-us-26113744.html }
'Even in the United States it is sometimes possible to hear the unvarnished truth about the Middle East' Fadia Rafeedie is a courageous lady. In just a few short, eloquent paragraphs, she accused Albright – introduced to the audience as "the greatest woman of our times" – of lying by omission, of responsibility via UN sanctions for the deaths of tens of thousands of innocent Iraqi civilians, of failing to tell her audience that it was an American company that had supplied Saddam Hussein with his chemical weapons and the CIA that had earlier funded him. To the horror of the university authorities, who thought they had control of her address, Fadia Rafeedie even mentioned the unmentionable: that US-made depleted uranium munitions fired by the Americans in the 1991 Gulf war may be destroying the lives of thousands more Iraqis. At almost the same time, on the other side of the US, a former Israeli soldier, James Ron, was baring his soul in the normally very pro-Israeli pages of the 
Boston Globe. As a member of a supposedly "élite" Israeli paratroop unit operating in Lebanon in 1986, he wrote, he dragged a blindfolded middle-aged man into an alley and put him through a mock execution. He helped to ransack and pillage a Lebanese village. He watched his comrade kick a cup of scalding tea into the face of an old man. Then he put his rifle against the head of a 10-year-old Lebanese boy and put him, too, through a mock execution. "Let me begin", he wrote, "by asking forgiveness from the 10-year old whose name I never knew and from the village I no longer remember." Two brave voices in a conformist land – one Palestinian, one Israeli – demonstrate that even in the US, it's sometimes possible to hear the unvarnished truth about the Middle East. I've railed against America's sheep-like subservience to the "moderate", pro-Israeli rules laid down by the State Department and CNN so often that I could scarcely believe what I was reading when Rafeedie's address and Ron's article arrived in Beirut. And you won't have read their words anywhere else. Real news is no longer news in the West, where only the clichéd peace-process-
vs-terrorist-fanatics version of the Arab–Israeli conflict finds its way into print. So it's worth studying these two astonishing contributions to the truth. In Rafeedie's case, her words were an act of faith. Several of her student colleagues – protesting at Albright's claim that UN sanctions against Iraq were necessary – had been hauled from the lecture theatre. "When [those] protesters were protesting," Rafeedie told the students listening to her, "it's not because they wanted to pick a fight with the woman whom you guys all happen – well, many of you – happen to love. She was introduced as the 'greatest woman of our times'. Now see, to me that's an insult. This woman is doing horrible things. She's allowing innocent people to suffer and to die. Iraq used to be the country in the Arab world that had the best medical services for its people, and now look at it. It's being obliterated." Sharp lady that she is, Rafeedie spotted the need to disassociate herself from Saddam. "He's a brutal dictator and I agree with her [Albright], and I agree with many of you. We need to see who's responsible for how strong Saddam has gotten. When he was gassing the Kurds, he was gassing them using chemical weapons that were manufactured in Rochester, New York. And when he was fighting a long and protracted war with Iran, where one million people died, it was the CIA that was funding him." Rafeedie was talking to people who would never have agreed with her. "I'm speaking to a crowd that gave a standing ovation to the woman who typifies everything against which I stand... and I think that if I achieve nothing else, if this makes you think a little bit about Iraq, think a little bit about US policy, I've succeeded." Some hope. But Rafeedie ended her extraordinary speech with an Arab slogan: "Fear not the path of the truth because of the lack of people walking on it." Mr Ron was making a somewhat different point: that Israel will have to do more than just withdraw its soldiers from southern Lebanon if it is to be forgiven for what it did there. Such as the 10-year-old boy. "We forced his family into the kitchen and dragged him to a nearby orchard," he wrote. "My lieutenant pressed the child's face into the dirt while I jammed my rifle against his skull. Although the officer threatened to shoot his head off, the boy did not respond, even after we threatened to throw him from the roof of his three-storey home." When Ron expressed "reservations" about this – a somewhat mild word under the circumstances – he was ridiculed. "Casual brutality was not limited to lower-income [Israeli] recruits. Omri, child of an intelligence officer, liked to fire bursts towards villagers peeking through doorways. Rafi, son of a liberal parliamentarian, kicked a cup of hot tea into an elderly man's face." Ron recalled the civilian fatalities of Israel's invasions of Lebanon – almost 20,000 – and asked why Israel could not compensate those it had harmed. "If Israel will not do so on its own, the international community should pressure it to do so. If other countries can face up to their unpleasant pasts" – Ron mentioned El Salvador and South Africa – "why not Israel?" Brave voices, as I said. Have no doubts – these are the voices of decent, genuinely moral people. Of course, it has to be said that Rafeedie was a bit braver than Ron. Her chances of academic progress are not going to be improved by her outburst at the awful Madeleine Albright. Ron, I should add, is an Israeli, an assistant professor of sociology at Johns Hopkins University and a human-rights investigator. No one is going to disturb his academic tenure. And 14 years is, frankly, a long time to wait before spilling the beans. But no, the real question is much simpler: why aren't non-Jewish and non-Arab Americans saying these things? Why aren't "ordinary" Americans – ie, those without a stake in the Middle East – asking these questions? Indeed, if the 
Boston Globe's own journalists had reported what Ron told the paper's readers, their dispatches would have remained unpublished. Rafeedie and Ron should take a bow: a Palestinian and an Israeli didn't worry that they were the only people walking down the path of truth. But why does it take such courage in America to tell the truth about the Middle East? 
