middle east
{  
    August 11 2013 03:04 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/israel-wont-allow-palestinian-state-29489550.html }
Madam – Last week Labour Party Councillor Richard Humphreys condemned my call for a mass movement of Palestinians along the lines of the first intifada, stating that it would inflict "pain and misery" on thousands of people. (Sunday Independent, August 4, 2013). Councillor Humphreys has in the past outrageously described those peaceful activists who were "summarily executed", according to a UN report, onboard the Mavi Marmara trying to break the illegal blockade of Gaza as "Turkish terrorists". Last November, he was trumpeting Israel's "right to defend itself" at a time when that "defence" consisted of bombarding the population of Gaza, killing over 100 civilians. Mr Humphreys referred to another round of so-called peace talks that have been initiated, contrasting this to my call for a mass movement. Obviously a real dialogue between the peoples in the Middle East aimed at achieving peace would be very welcome, but unfortunately that is not what is happening. The Israeli establishment has no intention whatsoever of allowing a viable and genuinely independent Palestinian state, with control over its economy and resources and a capital in east Jerusalem, to exist. Without the Israeli government being willing to grant this basic right of self-determination, the talks will remain a charade. The Israeli government is consciously acting to undermine any basis for a viable Palestinian state. Approval has just been given for the construction of another 1,000 homes for Israeli settlers between Bethlehem and Jerusalem, on land taken from Palestinians. A new mass movement along the lines of the first intifada is therefore both justified and necessary – it is the only way that Palestinian rights can be affirmed. It is only deliberate misconstruction or ignorance which sees this as a call for violence and terror. Paul Murphy, MEP, European Parliament TWO-STATE SOLUTION FOR MIDDLE EAST Madam – In her article 'What has Israel ever done to us', (Sunday Independent, August 4, 2013) Carol Hunt makes a vigorous defence of Israel's treatment of Palestinians in the Occupied Territories. She provides an historical backdrop to the Middle East peace process, and claims that Palestinians fare better under Israel than they do in many of the neighbouring Arab countries. However, her chronicle of Middle East history is selective and contains inaccuracies and omissions. There is no reference to the 1993 Oslo Accord to which both the Palestinians and the Israelis have subscribed and which affirms the two-state solution as the central tenet of the Middle East peace process. Oslo does not sit well with the narrative that Carol Hunt is putting forward as under Oslo, the expansion of Israeli settlements is illegal and thus threatens the very viability of the two-state solution. She declares that to compare the treatment of Palestinians to an apartheid regime is to insult those who have lived under apartheid. I think many of the ordinary Palestinian people would not agree with her assertion. Ms Hunt asserts that "the facts and statistics show that Palestinians are treated better by Israel than by other Arab nations where they live as refugees". Yet the only statistics she cites are for Jordan where she claims that of the two million Palestinian refugees in Jordan, just 167,000 have Jordanian citizenship. This is incorrect. According to the United Nations all of the Palestinian two million refugees with the exception of 140,000 Palestinians from Gaza have Jordanian citizenship and the 140,000 from Gaza have temporary Jordanian passports. Moreover, Jordan with its limited resources has been very generous in accepting refugees from war-torn Syria. Ms Hunt's article seems to be based on the premise that to defend Palestinians' rights is to be anti-Israel. Moreover, she misses the bigger picture in the relationship between Ireland, the EU and the Middle East. The recent EU guidelines on the participation of Israel in EU funded projects, which specifically exclude institutions with activities based in the West Bank, East Jerusalem, Gaza or the Golan Heights, are to be welcomed. So too are the forthcoming EU Guidelines on labelling which will ensure that products from the illegal Israeli settlements are not given the same preferential treatment as other Israeli goods and that European consumers will have a choice if they want to purchase these goods. Such policies are not anti-Israel but pro-human rights and a practical implementation of policy coherence in the EU. Emer Costello, MEP Chairperson of the European Parliament's Delegation for Relations with the Palestinian Legislative Council UNPALATABLE TRUTH IS HARD TO TAKE Madam – Carol Hunt is right in everything she said in her article 'What has Israel ever done to us?' (Sunday Independent, August 4, 2013). Unfortunately she will get dog's abuse from the usual suspects for simply stating, what is for some, the unpalatable truth. Nothing so offends the sensibilities of the national psyche more than the presentation of facts which don't tie in with the generally accepted nonsense that often passes for history in many of our schools. Many of our, apparently, sane and academically talented leaders seem unable to override the omnipresent effects of successfully implanted doctrine, especially when backed by the opinions of similarly affected peers. To this mindset, the question of rights for Israelis and Palestinians is a no-brainer. Israel possesses a far superior military force and, as such, must waive its right to defend its interests. Full stop. Since the establishment of the state of Israel in 1948, Israeli governments have consistently upheld the rights of all citizens, including Christians, Arabs, and others – notwithstanding intermittent acts of aggression from its Arab neighbours. It is time to drop the posturing of the little man with the large chip on his shoulder and hold out the hand of friendship to a small nation, one that faced and overcame the horrors of the Holocaust. – a mere 60-odd years ago. Niall Ginty, Killester, Dublin 5 LIVELINE WAS A HIT BEFORE JOE Madam – In reference to your article 'Hail and Farewell', by Gavin Duffy, (Sunday Independent, August 4, 2013), stating that Joe Duffy was "RTE's most undervalued broadcaster": At a salary of €378,000 recently reduced by 30 per cent, this is hardly the case. Liveline began in 1985 and was developed into a successful formula by Marian Finucane until 1999. Joe was in the wings waiting for the ultimate broadcasting prize which finally came his way in 2005. It is perfect for Joe, who qualified as a social worker before breaking into broadcasting as a roving reporter for the Gay Byrne Show in the early Nineties. What Gavin Duffy fails to realise is that Liveline was a successful radio slot long before Joe Duffy  found his niche in the bowels of RTE. Maria Murphy, Bishopstown, Cork PK JOINS RANKS OF POOR PENSIONERS Madam – What a clever chap broadcaster Pat Kenny must be.  Oodles of praise were bestowed on him by your writers last Sunday. However, the same PK was not so smart when he became a passive investor in dubious property schemes. I welcome him to the ranks of pensioners who have no choice but to continue working. Eddie Walsh, Nottingham, UK TRY RTE STARS ON INDUSTRIAL WAGE Madam – The furore about pay for RTE stars rumbles on. Could we get real here? As I have not heard any of them complaining too much about 30 per cent plus decreases in their individual stipends, nor have I heard any of them moan about anybody on the minimum wage. Could we instead try them on the average industrial wage, with a bonus of say, 20 per cent for their 'star' status and finish the argument once and for all? Liam Power, St Paul's Bay, Malta TODD ANDREWS ALSO CIE CHIEF Madam – The article by Donal Lynch on the possible successor to Pat Kenny in RTE (Sunday Independent, August 4, 2013), had one inaccuracy. The late Todd Andrews (Ryan Tubridy's grandfather) was chairman of the RTE Authority, not director general as stated. He was also for a period chairman of CIE. Asked by someone what was the difference between the two jobs, he reportedly replied: "RTE carries more passengers." Lele Usenbor (Mrs), Cambridge, UK NO RECORD OF  MR MCKENNA Madam – In an article titled 'Omagh Depravity Haunted Suspect' (Sunday Independent, July 28, 2013), it was reported that Seamus McKenna had been living in a Simon Community supported housing project in Dundalk. We have neither record nor memory of Mr McKenna ever living within a Simon Community residential project in Dundalk. Niall Mulligan, CEO, Dundalk Simon Community Sunday Independent 
