middle east
{ Áine Ní Shuilleabháin 
    January 06 2018 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/sport/gaa/burns-inspired-dr-crokes-triumph-36453881.html }
Dr Crokes won the East Kerry Under 21 A Championship in a game of two halves against Gneeveguilla played in Fitzgerald Stadium. Dr Crokes built a lead in the first half with Paul Clarke dominating the middle area of the field, while their defence dealt very well with the Gneeveguilla attack. A good 50:50 battle between Gneeveguilla's Patrick Warren and David Shaw of Dr Crokes saw these players with a point a piece in the opening half. Patrick Warren was also going forward and setting up scores. The impressive Micheál Burns notched up 1-4 in the opening half, the goal from a penalty, awarded to Micheál on the 8th minute. Dr Crokes led at the break: Dr Crokes 1-7 Gneeveguilla 0-4. Gneeveguilla upped their game on the restart, with a Jack Cremin goal in the opening minute, reducing the gap to a single score and setting up an exciting second half. Gneeveguilla moved Patrick Warren from defense to attack and Gneeveguilla scored another three goals - Shane Crowley, Jack Cremin and Jamie O'Sullivan on target. However, each time Gneeveguilla scored a goal, Dr Crokes responded immediatley with a goal or a number of points, maintaining their lead. David Shaw and Michael Casey rattling the Gneeveguilla net for the town side. Dr Crokes scored nine points in the second half, Micheál Burns with five, Cillian O'Regan, Michael Casey, Adam O'Shea and David Shaw a point each for Dr Crokes. Patrick Warren and Con Buckley pointed for Gneeveguilla. East Kerry Chairman, Tim Ryan presented the Maurice 'Mottie' O'Donoghue Cup to Dr Crokes captain Jordan Kiely. Dr Crokes: Johnny O'Leary, Brian Fitzgerald, Michael Potts, Lorcan McMonagle, Jack Griffin, David Naughton, Chris Doncel (0-1), Paul Clarke (0-1), Cillian O'Regan (0-1), Aaron Murphy, Michael Burns (1-9;4f), David Shaw (1-1), Michael Casey (1-1), Mark O'Shea, Jordan Kiely (Capt.) Subs: Creagh Courtney, Brendan Coppinger, Adam O'Shea (0-1), Jason O'Leary, James McAuliffe Gneeeguilla: Gerry Cronin, Darren Brosnan, DJ Murphy, Kevin Coughlin (Vice Capt.), Patrick Warren (0-2), Connie O'Connor, Jack Cremin (2-0), Dean Crowley, Conlin O'Leary, Damien O'Sullivan, Shane Crowley (1-0), Con Buckley(Capt) (0-4;2f), Jamie Brosnan, John O'Leary, Michael Brosnan(0-4;1f) Subs: Sean O'Keeffe, Jamie O'Sullivan(1-0), Brian Brosnan, Eamon Herlihy Referee: Brendan Brosnan (Glenflesk) Convention The date for the 2017 East Kerry Annual Convention has been brought forward a week and will now take place on Thursday, January 18 in the Killarney Heights Hotel, starting at 8pm after Mass at 7pm. Nominations and Motions to be with the Secretary of East Kerry Committee no later than Friday 12 January 2018. All Star Awards Tickets are available in the Kerry GAA store and from East Kerry GAA Officers for the East Kerry All Star Awards Gala Banquet, kindly sponsored by The Kerryman, The Aquila Club, Gleneagle Hotel and the East Kerry GAA Board. Always an enjoyable event, with great food the Gala Banquet will be held in The Ballroom, Gleneagle Hotel on Friday, January 12. The recipients of the 2017 East Kerry All Star Awards will be revealed along with the Senior, Fr Galvin and Young (Under 21) players of the year. The East Kerry Hall of Fame Award will be presented to Andy O'Sullivan (Spa) and Person of the Year Award to John Lenihan (Kilcummin and Fitzgerald Stadium). A Special Recognition Award will be presented to Pat Delaney in recognition of his outstanding and long standing service to East Kerry GAA. Kerryman 
