middle east
{  
    September 25 2013 03:02 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/ian-odoherty/the-names-lewthwaite-samantha-lewthwaite-29608061.html }
A couple of years ago, I spent some time interviewing some Irish people who had converted to Islam. One of the reverts (they say they have 'reverted' back to God's grace) I spoke to was a perfectly nice woman with a typical Cork sense of humour. She was quite lovely and friendly and cheerful and, in time, the conversation turned to suicide bombings. As ye do. She expressed sympathy for 'innocent' victims but was frank in her admission that if she knew someone was about to engage in a suicide bombing, or "martyrdom operation" as she referred to it, she wouldn't alert the authorities because: "I could never inform on a Muslim brother, I would instead try to persuade him to make sure that he was clear in his heart that it was the right thing to do." Which was nice. I was reminded, not for the first time, of that revert-by-the-Lee when the pictures of Samantha Lewthwaite began to emerge in connection with the Nairobi atrocity. The so-called 'White Widow' has been on the radar for years and her story is well thumbed – soldier's daughter, strict school and a standard middle-class Home Counties life all seem a long way away from being one of the world's most wanted women. In the last few years, she seems to have become the Keyser Soze of international terrorism – maybe baby terrorists are told that if they don't eat their greens and go to bed on time then the White Widow will come to get them. Regardless of the veracity of some of the wilder claims about her adventures in East Africa, she has now occupied a larger berth in the public imagination than the one she previously enjoyed. And, with understandable inevitability, it has now been suggested in some circles that the life she led is somehow an inevitable consequence of someone taking a convert's zeal to its logical conclusion. It's not – and it's unfair on other reverts/converts to suggest that just because they have decided to shop in the House of Islam rather than a different brand, they will end up shooting kids in a shopping centre or firing a rocket launcher into a bar full of people watching a match, as she is alleged to have done in Mombasa during the Euros. Had she been a product of different circumstances, she probably would have become involved in paramilitary violence or a much-feared mob wife. Essentially, she did what she did because of her personality type and it's dangerous and plain wrong to suggest that Islam is purely to blame. But, equally, there is also nothing to be gained from quickly sweeping her conversion under the prayer rug. Lewthwaite may well just have been mad, bad and very dangerous to know, and people will be quick to say that she doesn't represent the ordinary Muslim. All that is beyond dispute, and nobody is suggesting otherwise. But there is also no denying that she did this in the name of Islam and this is where the issue that Dare Not Speak Its Name rears its head. Because the only way to solve a problem like Samantha is to see weekly denunciations of Islamic terrorists from the Muslim leadership – no mealy-mouthed mewling about disenfranchised Muslim youth who are angry over Afghanistan. No more shifting of blame and cultural point scoring; just straight out condemnation and promises of Hell for those responsible. And if the Muslim leadership won't do that, why not? After all, tens of thousands of Irish people gathered in Dublin to say 'Not In Our Name' to protest against American violence in the Middle East in solidarity with Muslims in the Middle East, as did millions of people around the capital city of every Western democracy. How nice it would be to see a similar, 'Not In Our Name' public gesture being adopted by the silent majority of peaceful Muslims we are always hearing about. Well, we can but dream... COME ON YOU APES! YOU WANNA LIVE FOREVER?? Yes, yes. I know that using a quote from Starship Troopers in a piece about a new health breakthrough is a tad populist. But that was the thought that  sprang to mind with the news that adopting a strict vegetarian diet and practising yoga can regenerate telomeres. Now, as you already know, these telomeres can help slow down the ageing process. The popular media has been agog with the sensational news that if you only eat chickpeas and live a life of transcendental harmony, then you are likely to last longer than someone who spends their time stressed out and eating bad food. But that is a purely selfish view to take. After all, with old people now being blamed for taking up too many beds in Irish hospitals I'm half surprised the latest official dietary advice doesn't suggest that you exist on a diet of  deep-fried Mars bars and lard sandwiches. At least that way they'd avoid the pesky problem of older Irish people having the temerity to lead a long life. REALLY KANYE? ARE YOU REALLY SURE ABOUT THAT? So, our modern-day Mozart, Kanye West, has decreed something, and it's time you lot paid attention. The delightfully deluded West angrily denied that  he would be getting married to a gold digger and says of Kim Kardashian: "She could love me without my money." He then went on to insist in the BBC Radio 1 interview that fame and fortune mean nothing to her  and she would marry him because of who he really  is. Frankly, I could have understood her marrying for the fame and fortune. In fact, that seems perfectly reasonable – this is what these people do, after all. But when you see Kanye invading the stage to insult Taylor Swift, or inform people that he is a lyrical genius who may well be the Second Coming and even better, when you see that he actually believes this nonsense, then it becomes clear that obviously, Kardashian is one lucky woman. Sure who wouldn't want to marry a man who likes to repeatedly inform us that he is the Voice of a Generation? I know I would... Although in my case it would definitely be for the money. Irish Independent 
