middle east
{ By BEN MacINTYRE in New York 
    September 06 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/clinton-pleads-for-peace-in-final-assembly-speech-26108609.html }
THE old order ushered in the new yesterday, when Bill  Clinton bade farewell to his fellow world leaders with his  final speech to the United Nations in New York, while Russia's Vladimir Putin made his first address to the assembly. Mr Clinton opened the UN Millennium Summit with a plea for a peace deal in the Middle East and a grim warning that time is running out. ``There is not a moment to lose,'' he declared, before going on to back-to-back meetings at his New York hotel with Ehud Barak, the Israeli Prime Minister, and Yassir Arafat, the Palestinian leader. ``Chairman Arafat and Prime Minister Barak have promised to resolve the differences between them this year,'' Mr Clinton said in his last address to the UN before he leaves office next January. ``They have the chance to do it, but like all life's chances, it is fleeting and about to pass. To those who have supported the right of Israel to live in security and peace, to those who have championed the Palestinian cause these many years, let me say to all of you: they need your support now more than ever to take the hard risks for peace.'' Mr Clinton also denounced Burma's military leaders for putting Aung San Suu Kyi, the opposition leader, under house arrest. ``We face another test today in Burma, where a brave and popular leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, once again has been confined, with her supporters in prisons and her country in distress, in defiance of repeated UN resolutions,'' Mr Clinton said. But as Mr Clinton sought to kickstart the Middle East peace talks, after 15 days of negotiations at Camp David ended in failure in July, there were few signs of optimism from the different camps installed at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel, with the issue of sovereignty over holy sites in East Jerusalem still unresolved. Sandy Berger, National Security Adviser, conceded that as yet there was little hope of a peace deal emerging this week. In his prepared speech Mr Barak sought to put pressure on Mr Arafat, claiming that Israel had already made sacrifices in the quest for peace. ``It remains to be seen whether our counterparts are also capable of rising to the magnitude of the hour,'' he added. Mr Clinton sounded a nostalgic note in his valedictory speech, remarking that this was his ``last opportunity'' to address the UN and noting the ``unprecedented'' gathering of more than 150 world leaders, the largest such assembly in history. ``If I have learnt anything in the last eight years, it is that we are growing more interdependent,'' he said. Debutante Putin, meanwhile, called for a conference in Moscow next year on preventing the militarisation of space in his maiden speech. A week after Mr Clinton passed the decision on deployment of a national missile defence to his successor, Mr Putin described the potential use of space for military purposes as ``particularly alarming.'' Mr Clinton was due to meet the leaders of Jordan and Saudi Arabia last night in his efforts to put momentum behind fresh peace talks to solve the situation in the Middle East. Tony Blair was also scheduled to meet Mr Arafat last night, when the British Prime Minister was expected to put his weight behind Mr Clinton's call for a restructured peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians. Mr Arafat appears willing to postpone the deadline of September 13 for declaring Palestinian statehood, but Middle East experts say the Palestinian leader is reacting badly to the pressure from Mr Clinton to accept a compromise. Before Mr Clinton's speech, Kofi Annan, the UN Secretary-General, insisted that the aims of tackling poverty, Aids, epidemic, wars and environmental degradation should be more than mere rhetoric. He said that in the future the UN should monitor which countries were taking steps to implement the goals, and which were not. ``I am telling world leaders not only to come here and approve a plan of action, but that I would expect each and every one of them to go back home and begin to do something about it,'' he said. (The Times, London) 
