middle east
{ By TOBY HARNDEN in  Washington 
    July 18 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/last-frantic-bid-to-agree-middle-east-peace-deal-26114217.html }
PRESIDENT Bill Clinton continued negotiating into the  night at Camp David as White House sources said an  historic Israeli-Palestinian agreement was possible. US negotiators were hoping that at the very least, an Israeli recognition of a Palestinian state and a joint statement would cement progress so that fresh talks could be convened within weeks. Tensions surfaced when there was an unconfirmed report that the Palestinian delegation could be preparing to pull out. It had also been suggested that the Israelis were unhappy. Officials said the rumours reflected how much was at stake. The most intense area of disagreement appeared to be the fate of Jerusalem, which both sides claims as their capital. The Israelis apparently offered almost all of the West Bank if Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat would give way on Jerusalem, but the Palestinians are insisting they must be given control of the East Jerusalem. Joe Lockhart, a spokesman for Mr Clinton, said: ``It is very, very difficult to bridge the gap. People understand that there is not an open-ended or unlimited amount of time.'' Mr Clinton worked until 5am yesterday - the third day in succession he had taken the negotiations with Ehud Barak, the Israeli Prime Minister, and Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader, beyond midnight. He had pledged a similar, or longer session if need be, last night. With the President due to depart for the G-8 summit in Japan today, US officials stepped up the pressure on the two Middle East leaders to agree a deal. Madeleine Albright, the US Secretary of State, cancelled a flight to London, and the White House plane scheduled to take members of the press to Japan was postponed as delegates at the talks prepared for another long night. Although aides were drafting a consolidation statement that could form the basis for future talks, Mr Clinton instructed his staff not to talk about an ``exit strategy'' while hopes of a comprehensive agreement remained alive. After finishing work yesterday morning after two meetings with Mr Barak, Mr Clinton had a few hours sleep before holding a 10am meeting with Mr Arafat. Mr Lockhart said the ``pace and intensity'' of the talks had quickened as the final deadline approached, and the White House refused to rule out the President cancelling his trip. Avraham Burg, Israel's parliament speaker, held out the possibility of a partial deal under which Israel recognised a Palestinian state. ``Listen, let's not fool ourselves, OK?'' Mr Burg said from Israel. ``If it walks like a duck, if it talks like a duck, if it sounds like a duck, it's a Palestinian state.'' Mr Arafat has said he would declare a state by September 13, with or without an agreement. US officials fear such a move could provoke an outbreak of violence. Mr Burg said Israeli recognition of an independent state would help resolve the fate of millions of Palestinian refugees and the status of Jerusalem, which is claimed by both sides as their capital. Although the Israelis had been more pessimistic than the Palestinians about the chances of a deal, neither side appeared willing to pull out until every avenue had been exhausted. But in the Middle East there was popular pressure on both sides not to make concessions. In the West Bank town of Nablus, students from the radical groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad held a rally against the summit, burning an Israeli flag and a poster with ``Camp David'' inscribed on it. ``The only way to get our rights back is through holy war,'' said Zaid Barham, one of the demonstrators. There were two parallel sets of talks being conducted. The primary talks on ``core issues'' were being held at Camp David while lower-level discussions took place in nearby Emmitsburg. (* Daily Telegraph, London) 
