middle east
{  
    August 04 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/sport/other-sports/champions-are-dethroned-27373524.html }
Well-drilled WestKerry carried toomuch power for an Kerry carried too much power for an East Kerry side without the services of Seamus Moynihan WEST KERRY 2-15 EAST KERRY 1-11 EAST KERRY'S three-year reign as AIB County senior football champions endedwith a heavy defeat at the hands of a slick, well-drilled West Kerry teamin their replayed first-round game at Fitzgerald Stadium, Killarney, onlast Thursday evening. At the hour's end, there could be simply nodoubting which was the better team. The West Kerry side carried too muchpower for their opponents and, even though the holders tried to stage acomeback in the second half, they never looked like overhauling theirfree-striding rivals. The absence of the injured Seamus Moynihan dealt a major blow to East Kerry'schances and the further this one-sided contest went all the more was theGlenflesk man's absence felt. Without the power and leadership qualities of Moynihan to buoy them, thedefending champions were made to look a very ordinary side by a West Kerrycombination which played with wonderful flair and determinationover the 60 minutes. As against that, West Kerry were forced to line out without the servicesof regular full-back Jim Kelliher, but Derek McNamara proved to be a veryable deputy for the Dingle player in the circumstances. With the sole exception of the opening quarter, East Kerry were never inthe game with more than the slenderest of chances. After midfielder Paul Kennedy had put East Kerry in front with a fourthminute point, Sean Geaney equalised for West Kerry a minute later. TommyGriffin then pointed for West Kerry, but it was again all square when DonalO'Sullivan took a pass from John Crowley to shoot a point after eightminutes. Both sides probed for openings, but it was the title-holders who edged infront again when, following an interception by Donal Daly, the ball movedfrom Crowley to Brendan Doolan and the Spa wing-forward whipped over a point. Then, after Emmet Kennedy sent narrowly wide for West Kerry, the challengerswere back to level the game with a point from a free by Genie Farrell inthe 13th minute. But once the game moved into the second quarter it was West Kerry whoasserted themselves in no uncertain fashion. And it was their sterling half-back line of Neil Sheehy, Sean O'Mahonyand Colm Geaney which helped give the winners a stranglehold on the exchangesfor the remainder of the first half. In addition, Tommy Griffin and FintanAshe kept the momentum going in the middle of the field for the Westerners. However, it must be said that East Kerry were always toiling at centrefieldin that opening half where neither Donal Daly nor Paul Kennedy never reallygot to grips with matters. East Kerry's lack of cohesion and thrust was reflected in the fact thatthey failed to score from the ninth to the 23rd minute. In the meantime, West Kerry were gradually taking control of the game andslowly but surely they pulled away from their rivals. The winners had points from Jack Ferriter (17 minutes), Sean Geaney (18)and two more from the ever accurate Ferriter (20 and 21 minutes) to takea four-point lead and there was precious little that East Kerry could doabout it. East Kerry were singularly ineffective and lacked cohesion and appearedto have no real plan of campaign. Crowley pulled back a point for East Kerry in the 23rd minute, but a coupleof minutes later, the roof fell in on the hapless East Kerry side when SeanGeaney struck for two brilliantly-taken goals at the other end. The first of them came after 25 minutes when a magnificent through ballfrom outfield by Fintan Ashe was fastened on by Geaney and the Dingle manblasted a blinding low shot to the corner of the net, giving goalman ColmCounihan no chance whatsoever. The West Kerry cheers were loud and long. But they had scarcely died awaythan the terrier-like challengers were back for more of the same. This time it was right wing-back Neil Sheehy who triggered off the onslaught.The Annascaul man sped up the centre on a defence-splitting run before heparted to Sean Geaney and again the Dingle sharp-shooter pounced on thechance to crash another great shot to the net. Those two thunderbolt goals by Geaney broke the back in East Kerry's bidfor further glory and a fine long-range point from Sean O'Mahony sent WestKerry in at half-time leading by 2-8 to 0-4. Thereafter, East Kerry were left with a mountain to climb and, as eventstranspired in the second half, they were unable to scale it. In the second quarter, the losers replaced Paul Kennedy with Davy O'Donoghueand Con O'Connor came on for Jeremiah O'Sullivan. But, even though bothO'Donoghue and O'Connor tried for all they were worth to turn the tide inthe second half, there was just no halting the West Kerry onrush once theygot the scent of victory in their nostrils. As stated, the champions were sadly lacking in inspiration on the day. Withno Seamus Moynihan to lead by example, the losers were forced to live onscraps for the most part in the second half. Donal Daly was never the force he can be in the middle of the field and withJohn Crowley unable to latch onto the kind of passes he is used to, theEast Kerry attack lacked the necessary power and finish to unhinge atight-marking and confident West Kerry defence. Mind you, West Kerry were slack enough up front in the third quarter - theycould only manage three points inside the opening 13 minutes and two ofthose were from frees by Genie Farrell. There was a seven-minute break beforewing-back Colm Geaney had their next point. In between times, East Kerry chipped painstakingly away at their opponents'lead with points from Liam Murphy, Paud O'Donoghue (2), John Crowley andDavy O'Donoghue (45 mins). Then, in the 47th minute, the defending champions struck for their goal:Donal Daly it was who set up the opening for Liam Murphy and the bigGneeveguilla man grasped the chance to stick the ball in the net to reduceWest Kerry's advantage to five points (2-11 to 1-9). But that was as close as East Kerry got. Paud O'Donoghue - the Glenfleskattacker had a quiet game by his standards - tried a shot, but goalkeeperDiarmuid Murphy had no trouble in saving the ball. It was a case of flattering only to deceive as far as East Kerry wereconcerned and even their most avid supporters knew long before the finishthat the cause was a lost one. All they could manage from there to thefinal whistle was two pointed frees by Paud O'Donoghue. Aidan O'Connor (free), Genie Farrell and substitute Murt Moriarty had thewinners' remaining points to round off a momentous victory for the men fromthe peninsula. Of course, what made the victory all the sweeter for West Kerry was thefact that their two goals were scored by the wily Sean Geaney - the manwhose goal earned his side a replay in the game in Dingle in the first weekin July with a dramatic late flourish. West Kerry had every reason to feel satisfied and, indeed, delighted withthis triumph. Even allowing for the fact that East Kerry no longer havethe assistance of the Rathmore players and that Seamus Moynihan was anabsentee, nevertheless West Kerry had to greatly improve their all-roundperformanceto surmount this obstacle. That they did so and in such an emphatic mannermust inspire a lot of confidence in the team for the remainder of thechampionship. As stated, their backs were first-class, with Neil Sheehy, Sean O'Mahonyand Derek McNamara being particularly outstanding. Up front there wasno holding Sean Geaney and the ever elusive Genie Farrell and they weremost ably supported by Jack Ferriter and Aidan O'Connor. As far as East Kerry were concerned, they were but a pale shadow of the sidesthat captured the title for the past three years and brought so much gloryand success to the division in the process. They just didn't have the star quality players for the task on hands and eventhe best efforts of players like John Crowley, Donal Daly, Liam Murphy, Se·n”g O'Leary, Timmy O'Sullivan and Con O'Connor could do little or nothingto prevent West Kerry from recording a famous victory. Scorers for West Kerry: Sean Geaney (2-3), Genie Farrell (0-4, three frees),Jack Ferriter (0-3, one free), Tommy Griffin, Sean O'Mahony, Colm Geaney,Aidan O'Connor, free, Murt Moriarty (0-1 each). For East Kerry: Paud O'Donoghue (0-4 frees), Liam Murphy (1-1), John Crowley(0-2), Paul Kennedy, Donal O'Sullivan, Brendan Doolan, Davy O'Donoghue (0-1each). West Kerry: Diarmuid Murphy (Dingle); Brendan O'Shea (Lispole), DerekMcNamara (Castlegregory), Ronan O'Carroll (Lispole); Neil Sheehy (Annascaul),Sean O'Mahony (Castlegregory), Colm Geaney (Dingle); Tommy Griffin (Dingle),Fintan Ashe (Dingle); Emmet Kennedy (Annascaul), Alan Lynch (Castlegregory),Jack Ferriter (Dingle); Aidan O'Connor (Annascaul), Genie Farrell(Annascaul), Sean Geaney (Dingle). Subs.:David Heasman (Castlegregory)for Ashe (50 mins); Murt Moriarty (Dingle) for O'Connor (53 mins); KeithMoynihan (Annascaul) for O'Shea (58 mins). East Kerry: Colm Counihan (Listry); Anthony Morris (Spa), Michael O'Donoghue(Glenflesk), John C O'Donoghue (Glenflesk); Stephen Flynn (Firies), Se·n”g O'Leary (Gneeveguilla), Aeneas O'Leary (Gneeveguilla); Donal Daly(Firies), Paul Kennedy (Listry); Brendan Doolan (Spa), Liam Murphy(Gneeveguilla), Donal O'Sullivan (Fossa); Paud O'Donoghue (Glenflesk),Jeremiah O'Sullivan (Firies), John Crowley (Glenflesk), Subs.: DavyO'Donoghue (Glenflesk) for Kennedy (22 mins); Con O'Connor (Firies) forJeremiah O'Sullivan (22 mins); James Casey (Firies) for Aeneas O'Leary (halftime); Timmy O'Sullivan (Glenflesk) for Brendan Doolan (half time); DanMcKenna (Fossa) for Donal O'Sullivan (38 mins). Referee: Joe Langan (Tarbert). 
