middle east
{  
    March 21 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/pope-touches-on-mideast-wounds-as-tour-begins-26122485.html }
By PHIL REEVES in Jerusalem    POPE JOHN PAUL touched down in Jordan yesterday to begin the most diplomatically perilous journey of his 22-year... POPE JOHN PAUL touched down in Jordan yesterday to begin the most diplomatically perilous journey of his 22-year papacy, and at once made clear that he would not shy away from the combustible issues of Middle East politics. Moments after shuffling down the steps of the Alitalia aeroplane that carried him from Rome to Amman, the pontiff addressed the region's deepest wounds, referring to the ``grave and urgent issues of justice'' and ``the rights of peoples and nations which have to be resolved''. The Pope, who made his remarks at the airport after being greeted by King Abdullah, emphasised that his journey was one of peace and reconciliation and stressed the importance of continuing the Middle East peace process ``no matter how difficult, no matter how long''. However, his words will be seen as a signal by many in the Middle East that - although on a personal (and long dreamed of) spiritual mission to the land of Christ and Moses - the Pope also does not intend to be blind to the issues that have divided the region for so long. In particular, the Palestinians are certain to see the first words of his Holy Land tour as support for their cause. Later today he will arrive in Israel, which has been promoting the papal visit as an historic culmination of four decades of slow and uneven reconciliation between the Roman Catholic Church and Judaism. Some Israelis - at least, the more right-wing element - may also view his opening remarks as pro-Arab. However, the pontiff has insisted that he is a friend of both sides of the conflict; his words could equally be seen as an endorsement of Israel's right to exist. The Pope, looking frail and moving slowly, arrived in Jordan in white robes and began waving even before he was out of his aircraft. These days he cannot kiss the ground on arrival, but he made the symbol of the cross after being handed a pot of Jordanian soil by a Muslim boy. ``All Jordanians - Muslims and Christians - should consider themselves as one people, one family,'' he said in a slow, quavering voice. He went on: ``In this area of the world, there are grave and urgent issues of justice of the rights of peoples and nations which have to be resolved.'' King Abdullah, who greeted the Pope in a traditional red Arab head-dress, alongside Queen Rania and about 300 local dignitaries, also made clear the contemporary political significance of the Pope's mission. The king told the Pope that his visit brought ``hope for a brighter future to those who have known nothing but the miseries of the past. Hope for the Palestinians who yearn for justice and stability. A promise for the Israelis of security and acceptance. Comfort for the Lebanese of a better tomorrow. And the hope for the Syrians that the sad chapter of war is finally over.'' From the airport, the Pope went to Mount Nebo, where the Bible says Moses looked across the Promised Land. After praying at a basilica on the mount, the pontiff stood under a tall cross outside the church and gazed westward at parts of the Dead Sea, River Jordan and Jericho in the West Bank - a moment which he says he has waited for for many years. Views of Jerusalem and Bethlehem were blocked by haze. He then rode in his popemobile back to Amman, where thousands of cheering people lined the streets. Jordanian television said there were 50,000; witnesses put the figure rather lower, at around 15,000.  DIVIDED VIEWS ``The Pope is the king of the whole world, the king of love,'' said Caroline Neemah (78), a Christian, as she waited for the Pope's motorcade. Some Muslim residents were less impressed. ``This visit has no value and no fruit. We are in an Islamic country and we shouldn't welcome an atheist like this,'' said Sueilem al-Khatib (48). Today the papal entourage moves on to Jerusalem, in the smouldering core of the Middle East conflict, and then to Palestinian-controlled Bethlehem tomorrow. He will arrive to an Israeli society that is expecting him to apologise for the Catholic Church's failings during the Holocaust and a Palestinian one that is looking forward to his endorsement for their rights to statehood. Israel's Prime Minister Ehud Barak yesterday was eagerly trying to set the right mood. He called the Pope's voyage ``a monumental turning point'' in relations between Christians and Jews, and said he was not concerned about attempts to politicise it. This is just as well as the skirmishing, predictably, has already begun. The Israelis have long fretted that the Palestinians would use the visit to assert their sovereignty. Israeli police yesterday ordered Palestinians at the PLO headquarters in east Jerusalem to remove a Palestinian flag flying alongside a Vatican flag on a balloon above their building. They also objected to a banner that read: ``Jerusalem the eternal Palestinian capital welcomes the Pope.'' The Israelis who said the balloon was provocative and ``against the Pope's wishes'' - did not, however, apply the same rules to their own flags. Those, as ever, were fluttering in parts of Arab Jerusalem which Israel seized in 1967 and annexed in defiance of UN resolution 242 and the wishes of most of the international community - including the Vatican. * Independent News Service. 
