middle east
{  
    March 08 2011 11:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/news/final-push-27342348.html }
HE'S AT THAT awkward age. Thirteen. That's the age where girls are on the radar, but they still invoke blushes of embarrassment. Much more at home thundering down a hurling pitch, Daniel Furlong has recently found himself placed on a pedestal by bunches of preteen girls. The cherubic faced blonde is like a scaled back version of Justin Bieber. His fan base is growing by the second, and every time he sings on the All Ireland Talent Show he endears himself to another legion of fans. Even his 92-year-old grandmother, Eileen Stafford from Kilmore, is handling some of the fan mail. She's been a big support to him, and has travelled to all of the live shows in Dublin. 'His granny came out to see him last week, and before she came out to Taghmon a little girl, who had seen Daniel when he visited her school, went to her house in Kilmore with a card she had made for him. His granny got a big kick out of that,' smiled Daniel's mum Theresa. Daniel has been catapulted into the public eye through his success as a sweet, angel-faced, singer on the All Ireland Talent Show. Before Christmas, the young Taghmon singer won his way into the heart of mentor Blathnaid ni Chofaigh in the audition stages. He didn't only get her attention. He made her cry. The flame-haired gaelgoir called him ' her little sausage' - a moniker that has raised plenty of blushes for the youngster - and she happily selected him to represent the East or Leinster region in the competition. In his first live performance, Daniel gave a crystal clear rendition of Pie Jesu, and he was given the highest in-studio marks on the night by the judges. Text voting by the general public, however, saw him knocked off the top slot and instead he had to fight for his place in the semi-finals by performing in a Wild Card show. Daniel's ace performance of Eric Clapton's ' Tears in Heaven' coupled with a massive text campaign mounted by his family, neighbours and friends in Taghmon saw him sail into the semi-finals. Daniel will once again run the gauntlet for The East when he appears in the semis this Sunday night, singing the Art Garfunkel classic 'Bright Eyes'. At the moment Paddy Power bookmakers have him one of the top three to be over all winner. They've given him odds of 6/1 with shorter odds only on Donegal crooner Brian Sheerin (7/2) and West set dancing troop Cosa Beaga (11/4). Appearing in the All Ireland Talent Show is not Daniel's first experience in front of a TV camera. In fact, the youngster has made numerous radio and television appearances since he first started to sing with the Young Wexford Singers at the age of 7. Daniel followed in the footsteps of his older brother Thomas, who was himself quite the talented young singer as a child. Handsome Thomas, who is currently studying for the Leaving Certificate in St. Peter's, is an inspiration for young Daniel. In all of his All Ireland Talent Show footage, Thomas is always featured - and his baby brother beams up at the good looking 17-yearold. 'People are starting to tell me I look like him,' laughed Thomas. As he supports his brother, Thomas, with his wide smile and matinee idol good looks, has also received a lot of attention from the girls. 'He (Thomas) told me that he got a lot of requests from people he doesn't know to be his friend on facebook alright,' laughed their mum Theresa, who does a great job in ensuring that both her boys are grounded, respectful and mannerly. Theresa is also adamant that Daniel should enjoy every second of this experience and shouldn't be too disappointed if he doesn't win outright. 'Daniel is just enjoying every performance, and he's so grateful to everyone for spending their money voting for him, and everyone who has supported him,' she said. Daniel says he is thoroughly enjoying the whole whirlwind experience, and would love one day to be a professional singer - that's if his dreams of winning an all-Ireland or becoming a professional sportsman aren't materialised. As a GAA player, Daniel has a dream to don the purple and gold and play for his county. At the moment he already plays for the U14 TaghmonCamross hurling and football teams. Through Taghmon-Camross, he already has a few Rackard league medals to his name. Soccer is also a sport he enjoys and Daniel regularly togs out with Taghmon United for the U12 Soccer League. He has been interested in athletics all his life, and has qualified for county teams several times as a long distance runner. In the winner months he plays badminton. Both singing and sport have earned him spots on the Wexford Community Games teams and he has regularly represented Wexford at the national games. Daniel's singing career has been mainly under the guiding eye of Young Wexford Singers director Eanna McKenna. Choirmaster Eanna spotted Daniel's potential at a very young age, and he made him lead soprano of the choir from the age of 9. As part of the choir, Daniel took part in the TG4 Nollaig No. 1 competition back in 2008 - the same contest which gave X Factor singer Mary Byrne her first outing. Mary won the competition and released her first single 'Suil Leat', and Daniel featured as one her backing singers for the performance. 'Daniel sang with more of the Young Wexford Singers with Mary Byrne. Someone must have told her that he was on the All Ireland Talent Show because she came onto his Facebook fan page and left him a message, wishing him well,' said Theresa. Daniel also appeared with the Choir on the Late Late Toy Show in 2008, and had a solo performance on RTE's ' Carols for Christmas' from Wexford Opera House in 2009. On stage, Daniel made quite an impact when he played the part of the little boy Edgar in the Wexford Light Opera Society's award winning production of Ragtime. From here, Oyster Lane Theatre Group snapped him up to play the part of Oliver, a role which he later reprised with Festival Productions in Wexford Opera House in 2009. Daniel is also a regular in Taghmon Tops, and most recently competed in the St. Peter's Got Talent competition with his brother Thomas. 'I always knew that Daniel had something special. He always had the "it" factor. He truly did. He never had to be trained. He just had a natural talent that was easy to bring on,' said Eanna this week. While the confident youngster is enjoying his 15 minutes of national fame, he hasn't forgotten his pals locally and is currently in the middle of rehearsals for Tops in his local Taghmon. Daniel, and some of his friends, will sing a Justin Bieber song in the show, while he also features in a comedy sketch. When he's not playing sports or singing, Daniel can be found upstairs in his bedroom where he happily plays songs from his favourite musicians The Script and Bruno Mars on the guitar he received as a Christmas present. Elsewhere his family, including his mum Theresa, dad Tom, brother Thomas and sister Roisin (a 20-year-old communications student) are trying to orchestrate Daniel's vote campaign. 'The West seem to be very good at voting for their acts, and I really need people from the East to support me. I'm the only one left in it representing the East,' said Daniel. To help offset the cost of texting, various fundraisers have been organised in Daniel's name. St. Peter's College, where he is a first year student, organised a no-uniform day for Daniel last Friday, while there have already been two cabaret fundraisers in Taghmon. This Wednesday, March 9, will see Daniel perform along with a host of other talent at a special fundraising concert in Rowe Street Church at 8 p.m. 'We're all exhausted, but we are campaigning to give Daniel the best shot he can have in the competition. People have been so supportive, and it's been such a buzz. I can't believe how people have spent their own money, and come on board for Daniel. It's been a real honour,' said Theresa. Daniel will sing 'Bright Eyes' in the second of the live semi-finals of the All Ireland Talent Show this Sunday night, March 13 at 6.30 p.m. HE'S AT THAT awkward age. Thirteen. That's the age where girls are on the radar, but they still invoke blushes of embarrassment. Much more at home thundering down a hurling pitch, Daniel Furlong has recently found himself placed on a pedestal by bunches of preteen girls. The cherubic faced blonde is like a scaled back version of Justin Bieber. His fan base is growing by the second, and every time he sings on the All Ireland Talent Show he endears himself to another legion of fans. Even his 92-year-old grandmother, Eileen Stafford from Kilmore, is handling some of the fan mail. She's been a big support to him, and has travelled to all of the live shows in Dublin. 'His granny came out to see him last week, and before she came out to Taghmon a little girl, who had seen Daniel when he visited her school, went to her house in Kilmore with a card she had made for him. His granny got a big kick out of that,' smiled Daniel's mum Theresa. Daniel has been catapulted into the public eye through his success as a sweet, angel-faced, singer on the All Ireland Talent Show. Before Christmas, the young Taghmon singer won his way into the heart of mentor Blathnaid ni Chofaigh in the audition stages. He didn't only get her attention. He made her cry. The flame-haired gaelgoir called him ' her little sausage' - a moniker that has raised plenty of blushes for the youngster - and she happily selected him to represent the East or Leinster region in the competition. In his first live performance, Daniel gave a crystal clear rendition of Pie Jesu, and he was given the highest in-studio marks on the night by the judges. Text voting by the general public, however, saw him knocked off the top slot and instead he had to fight for his place in the semi-finals by performing in a Wild Card show. Daniel's ace performance of Eric Clapton's ' Tears in Heaven' coupled with a massive text campaign mounted by his family, neighbours and friends in Taghmon saw him sail into the semi-finals. Daniel will once again run the gauntlet for The East when he appears in the semis this Sunday night, singing the Art Garfunkel classic 'Bright Eyes'. At the moment Paddy Power bookmakers have him one of the top three to be over all winner. They've given him odds of 6/1 with shorter odds only on Donegal crooner Brian Sheerin (7/2) and West set dancing troop Cosa Beaga (11/4). Appearing in the All Ireland Talent Show is not Daniel's first experience in front of a TV camera. In fact, the youngster has made numerous radio and television appearances since he first started to sing with the Young Wexford Singers at the age of 7. Daniel followed in the footsteps of his older brother Thomas, who was himself quite the talented young singer as a child. Handsome Thomas, who is currently studying for the Leaving Certificate in St. Peter's, is an inspiration for young Daniel. In all of his All Ireland Talent Show footage, Thomas is always featured - and his baby brother beams up at the good looking 17-yearold. 'People are starting to tell me I look like him,' laughed Thomas. As he supports his brother, Thomas, with his wide smile and matinee idol good looks, has also received a lot of attention from the girls. 'He (Thomas) told me that he got a lot of requests from people he doesn't know to be his friend on facebook alright,' laughed their mum Theresa, who does a great job in ensuring that both her boys are grounded, respectful and mannerly. Theresa is also adamant that Daniel should enjoy every second of this experience and shouldn't be too disappointed if he doesn't win outright. 'Daniel is just enjoying every performance, and he's so grateful to everyone for spending their money voting for him, and everyone who has supported him,' she said. Daniel says he is thoroughly enjoying the whole whirlwind experience, and would love one day to be a professional singer - that's if his dreams of winning an all-Ireland or becoming a professional sportsman aren't materialised. As a GAA player, Daniel has a dream to don the purple and gold and play for his county. At the moment he already plays for the U14 TaghmonCamross hurling and football teams. Through Taghmon-Camross, he already has a few Rackard league medals to his name. Soccer is also a sport he enjoys and Daniel regularly togs out with Taghmon United for the U12 Soccer League. He has been interested in athletics all his life, and has qualified for county teams several times as a long distance runner. In the winner months he plays badminton. Both singing and sport have earned him spots on the Wexford Community Games teams and he has regularly represented Wexford at the national games. Daniel's singing career has been mainly under the guiding eye of Young Wexford Singers director Eanna McKenna. Choirmaster Eanna spotted Daniel's potential at a very young age, and he made him lead soprano of the choir from the age of 9. As part of the choir, Daniel took part in the TG4 Nollaig No. 1 competition back in 2008 - the same contest which gave X Factor singer Mary Byrne her first outing. Mary won the competition and released her first single 'Suil Leat', and Daniel featured as one her backing singers for the performance. 'Daniel sang with more of the Young Wexford Singers with Mary Byrne. Someone must have told her that he was on the All Ireland Talent Show because she came onto his Facebook fan page and left him a message, wishing him well,' said Theresa. Daniel also appeared with the Choir on the Late Late Toy Show in 2008, and had a solo performance on RTE's ' Carols for Christmas' from Wexford Opera House in 2009. On stage, Daniel made quite an impact when he played the part of the little boy Edgar in the Wexford Light Opera Society's award winning production of Ragtime. From here, Oyster Lane Theatre Group snapped him up to play the part of Oliver, a role which he later reprised with Festival Productions in Wexford Opera House in 2009. Daniel is also a regular in Taghmon Tops, and most recently competed in the St. Peter's Got Talent competition with his brother Thomas. 'I always knew that Daniel had something special. He always had the "it" factor. He truly did. He never had to be trained. He just had a natural talent that was easy to bring on,' said Eanna this week. While the confident youngster is enjoying his 15 minutes of national fame, he hasn't forgotten his pals locally and is currently in the middle of rehearsals for Tops in his local Taghmon. Daniel, and some of his friends, will sing a Justin Bieber song in the show, while he also features in a comedy sketch. When he's not playing sports or singing, Daniel can be found upstairs in his bedroom where he happily plays songs from his favourite musicians The Script and Bruno Mars on the guitar he received as a Christmas present. Elsewhere his family, including his mum Theresa, dad Tom, brother Thomas and sister Roisin (a 20-year-old communications student) are trying to orchestrate Daniel's vote campaign. 'The West seem to be very good at voting for their acts, and I really need people from the East to support me. I'm the only one left in it representing the East,' said Daniel. To help offset the cost of texting, various fundraisers have been organised in Daniel's name. St. Peter's College, where he is a first year student, organised a no-uniform day for Daniel last Friday, while there have already been two cabaret fundraisers in Taghmon. This Wednesday, March 9, will see Daniel perform along with a host of other talent at a special fundraising concert in Rowe Street Church at 8 p.m. 'We're all exhausted, but we are campaigning to give Daniel the best shot he can have in the competition. People have been so supportive, and it's been such a buzz. I can't believe how people have spent their own money, and come on board for Daniel. It's been a real honour,' said Theresa. Daniel will sing 'Bright Eyes' in the second of the live semi-finals of the All Ireland Talent Show this Sunday night, March 13 at 6.30 p.m. 
