middle east
{  
    May 27 2013 02:37 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/beaufort-29287641.html }
Lotto results: There was no Lotto winner. Numbers drawn 5,6,7,12. Consolation prizes. €80 Jack O'Sullivan, Killorglin, €50 Eileen Kelliher, Kilgobnet, Isobel O'Shea, Shanacloon, Sheila O'Connor, Kilgobnet.   Next draw for a jackpot of €4, 000 will be held in The Inn Between Bar on Sunday 2nd June. Fixtures: Beaufort Juniors v Templenoe (away) on Friday 24th May at 7.30p.m Seniors v St Mary's (away) on Sat.25th May at 7.30p.m U12'S V Listowel Emmetts (at home) on Sunday 26th May at 7p.m U14'S V Firies (at home) on Monday 27th May at 7p.m. Result: Seniors Beaufort 0.9 Listry 1.10 Beaufort were leading 3 points to no score after 11 minutes. Although having plenty opportunities and the lion's share of possession failed to score again until the 28th minute. Beaufort dominated for the first 15 minutes of the second half, taking a lead of 3 points. Listry got a goal in the 18th minute to level the match. This spurred on Listry, and they outscored Beaufort by 5 points to Beaufort's one point in the last 10 minutes. Final score Beaufort 0.9 Listry 1.10 Congratulations to Tara Breen and Ian McGillycuddy who have been selected to play on the Kerry Primary game against Tipperary on Sunday in Fitzgerald Stadium. CROMANE LOTTO: The numbers drawn on 8th May 13 in the Cromane Gaa Club Lotto were 1, 18, 21.25. There was no winner of the €4, 300 Jackpot. Four prizes of €30 each went to Kelly Tehan, Ballycleave. Ticket sold by John Teahan; Jean Rice, Upper Tullig. Ticket sold by Theresa O.Sullivan McKeefry Family, Stookisland. Annual Ticket. Jimmy McMahon, Cromane Lower. Annual Ticket. The numbers drawn on 15th May were 3, 10.19.21. No winner of €4, 400. Thirty Euros each went to Mary O.Sullivan, Forest View. Ticket sold by Micheal O.Sullivan. Patricia Teahan, Cromane Lr. Ticket sold by John Moss Teahan. Abbey Ahern, Caragh Lake. Ticket sold by Sharon Casey. Gwynne Comyn, Mallow, Cork. Ticket sold by Jacks. If youre not in, you cant win. Tickets can be purchased from usual outlets or on line. MEMBERSHIP of Cromane Gaa Club is now due and should be paid as soon as possible. Adults €30. Players €40. Students €20. Under Age €10. Family Membership €40. Registrars Theresa O.Sullivan, Patrick Casey or Sean Sullivan. KELLOGGS CUL CAMPS: This years Cul Football Camp will take place in Cromane on the week of July 22nd to July 26th. Application for Booking can be downloaded from the CromaneGaa Club Webside www.cromane.com. Do book early. CURROW CO. LEAGUE: Currow played St. Pat's in R5 D2 of the county league in Currow Sunday. Currow was first on the scoreboard with a point from John Buckley after Seamus Scanlon winning the throw-in. St. Pats got their first score, a point, after three minutes from Tommy O'Connor. They added two more and Currow one, when John Buckley was awarded a penalty, the resulting shot was deflected over the bar leaving the score after twelve minutes 0-3 each. St. Pats controlled the remainder of the first half scoring a goal and six points to Currows two points. Half time score St. Pats 1-9 Currow 0-5. The second half began with the home side getting two points and the visitors scoring two. The fight back from Currow started at this stage and points from John Daly, Seamus Brosnan, Timmy O'Leary and Mike McCarthy and John Buckley. All looked to be lost for the home side with time nearly up. A long ball was sent onto Currow forwards where Martin Howard, full back won it and was pulled down in the square by Pats defence. The referee had no option but to give a penalty, scored by Mike Hanifin in the last minute of normal time. Both teams got a chance to win but finished all square at 1-12 each. The next round is away to Tarbert. All games next weekend are on Saturday evening due to Kerry's involvement in Munster championship on Sunday in Killarney against Tipperary and we wish them the best of luck. RACE NIGHT: The club video race night supported the senior board, Bord na nOg and ladies football is fast approaching and it is time to get those horses saddled up and have them in prime condition for Friday night May 31st in Riverside Inn, Currans. Currow Ladies Football Club: Last weekend was another very successfull one for our Underage Teams when our Under 12 and 14 Teams had great wins in the County League. Our U12's made a great start to their County League when they had a 6-11 to 1-01 win over Beale out in Ballybunion. In a game that was spoiled by a gale force wind, we made a great start with the wind with our midfield of Joyce O'Connor and Eilish Brosnan in total Control and Gracie Daly, Maura O'Connor and Anna Fitzgerald dominating in defence. Our Full forward line of Maeve Leane, Cira Fitzgerald and Ellen Dennehy made great space and use of all the ball they were getting with scores goals coming from Joyce O'Connor, Cira Fitzgerald and Ellen Dennehy(2) and points from Maeve Leane, Edel Brosnan, Eilish Brosnan, Gracie Daly, Ellen Dennehy, Cira Fitzgerald and Joyce O'Connor, to let us leading 4-07 to 1-00 at half time. We continued to dominate in the second half wit Siobhain Brosnan outstanding in Goals and Cira Sheehy, Marie Daly and Hillary O'Connor outstanding in defence. In attach our half forwards Edel Brosnan, Cait O'Mahony and Allanagh Butler carried alot of ball against the wind with Cira Fitzgerald and Joyce O'Connor adding Goals and Eilish Brosnan, Edel Brosnan, Cira Fitzgerald and Ellen Dennehy adding points to see us run out easy winners 6-11 to 1-01. Our Under 14 Team played neighbours Desmonds in Currow in their 3rd County League game; and even though we fielded a very weak team with many Under 12's , the girls played some fabulous football to pull off a fantastic win on a score of 2-06 to 1-07. This was our first win of the campaign and we will now hope to build on this. U8 GO Games Blitz: The Currow U8 boys and girls will travel to Ballymac to take part in the next round District GO Games blitz. U10 GO Games Blitz: Currow had a boys and girls team participating in the U10 District GO Games blitz last Thursday evening. Both teams put in some displays during the blitz. A big thank you to all the parents who brought the players to the blitz. Please note the U10 team will play Kilcummin away this Wednesday at 6.30pm. U12 County League The U12 team travelled to play Glenbeigh/Glencar in the next round of the County League but both the U11 and U12 teams lost both their games. Their next games will see the teams play Fossa at home next weekend. Please check the kerrygaa website for further details. Race Night: Just a reminder the club fundraising event in conjunction with the senior and ladies clubs will be held on the 31st May at The Riverside Inn. Fundraising Forms to be returned as soon as possible. Please support the club as all monies go towards the cost of running, maintaining and the development of club facilities. Please contact Moss Leane on 086 6030922 for any queries. DERRYNANE Sneem/Derrynane won their County league game away to Ballydonoghue on a scoreline of 0-10 to 0-9 on Sunday 12th and they kept up their winning ways with a comfortable 2-18 to 0-5 win away to Keirns O Rahillys in Tralee last weekend. They play Laune Rangers in Sneem on Sat next in round 6 .(see posters for time) The juniors played out a draw with Kenmare in round 1 of the County Junior league on a score of 2-3 to 0-9.They lost to St Marys on a score of 2-12 to 2-7 in round 2 last weekend. DR CROKES CO. LEAGUE DIV 1 Legion 0-10 Dr. Crokes 2-17 We made the short hop across the bypass on Sunday last for the local derby with Legion coming home with the spoils. Next round is this coming Saturday v Kerins O'Rahillys @ Lewis Road with a 7.30pm throw in. CO. JUNIOR LEAGUE: Dr. Crokes 4-14 Kilcummin 1-05 Goals win games and this was true in this Rd. 2 clash on Friday last. Keith O'Leary and Senan Lavery in the first half, James Jones and Niall O'Connell in the second half all found the Kilcummin net to put this contest out of reach of the visitors. This Friday we are at home to Rathmore in the 3rd round with 7.30pm throwin. SENIOR HURLING :We are currently involved in the Kerry Senior Hurling League (Division 2) and are going really well. The record so far has been 3 wins against Kenmare, Ballyheigue and Lixnaw with one defeat away to a strong Abbeydorney team. We are now in a realistic position to qualify for the play off stages later in the year. This is a real improvement from the disappointments and poor performances of the last couple of years when we suffered badly from the loss of a large number of strong and experienced players. The main factor in our dramatic improvement this year has been the emergence from the club under-age academy of some very talented young players like Shane Lyne and Aaron Murphy. These enthusiastic young lads have energised the whole set-up and given a much needed lift to us all. We look forward to welcoming a few more from the "academy" on board in the next few weeks when school and college exams have been completed. Our latest game was at home against Lixnaw on Wednesday 15 May 2013. This turned out to be a real high scoring cracker with immense displays all over the field from several of the Dr. Crokes players. We emerged as one point winners in the end on a score-line of 1-18 to 1.17. We saw terrific displays from the likes of Shane Lyne, Mike Murphy, Rory Waters, Keith Curtin, Shane Kavanagh, Evan O'Donoghue, Mike McCarthy and Aaron Murphy but the MOTM award must go to our veteran goalkeeper, Timmy Hourigan. Sadly for Timmy he sustained a very serious leg break while making the match winning save in, ironically, "injury time". At the time of writing he is still in hospital but is making good progress. Speedy recovery Timmy! For the rest of the season we will be driven by a desire to honour you Timmy and to bring home some silverware in your name. Our next league fixture is away to Kilmoyley on Wednesday 22nd. May. COISTE NA OG U-8 GO-GAMES: we had a very successful blitz with Spa last week. We are delighted that Firies have made themselves available to fill the vacant spot, so this Wednesday our Go-Games will have 3 clubs. Come along and enjoy the stars of the future. U-10s have numerous games & Blitzs coming up while our Girls also have challenge games to play in the near future. Keep an eye on club notes for more details. JUVENILE COACHES: Anyone wishing to get involved in any grades or parts of the Dr Crokes are very welcome. Please feel free to call our coaching officer John O' Shea (0872488768) NEW MEMBERS are always welcome at our club, come along meet new friends and get involved in a very progressive club. BIRTHDAY WISHES: Special wishes to Cait Griffin who had a special Birthday recently. Cait & her family have given huge service to the club for many years EAST KERRY U16 CHAMPIONSHIP: Dr. Crokes 1-11 Spa 3-09. A reversal of the League final of two weeks previously when went down to a Spa side who had improved enormously in the meantime. No excuses we were beaten by the better side on the night who took their goal chances and deserved their victory. U12 BOYS Mixed bag for our under 12 Footballers this last weekend. Legion were the visitors to Lewis Road on Sunday 19th May to play our Black and Amber Teams. Despite a below par performance the Black team contested to the end and having hit the woodwork on three occasions, lost out in the finish to a strong Legion outfit. There will be better days ahead for these young Crokes who are learning all the required aspects of Gaelic Football with every passing game. The Amber team came out on top in their contest with our neighbours but were made to fight all the way, thus maintaining their excellent form for the year to date. The White team are competing with the first eleven of the clubs in their division and despite another defeat, this time against Lispole, they too are learning to practise their skills in a match situation and will benefit from the experience in the years to come. Young in age , they responded well in the second half with an increased workrate and no little skill and scores. Next up for the Black and Amber teams is an away trip to Laune Rangers while the White team are home to Kilgarvan. GAA CÚL CAMPS Kellogg's Cúl Camps are run throughout the Summer in all Counties. Dr Crokes will host a football Camp from July 1st to 5th in Lewis Road. LOTTO the Jackpot of ?7, 500 was not won on Sunday last, numbers drawn were 1, 7, 10, 18. Match 3 winners were Nathaniel doncel c/o 33 main St., Mary O'Mahony Shrone, Anne Looney Woodlawn Drive, Gerry Hickey An Rod Offaly, James Casey c/o Eddie, Veronica Stack 0876728048, Robbie Galvin c/o Chris. Jackpot on Sunday next will be €7, 800. WELL DONE to Miceal Burns who had an outstanding game for the kerry Minors in the Munster s/f last week. Tony Brosnan was also introduced. CONGRATULATIONS to Gemma Kavanagh on being selected the Kerry Rose for 2013. SYMPATHY to the family of the late Fr. Eoghan O'Leary who played with us in the 50s. and to the O'Sullivan Darcy family on the death of John FIRIES BALLYHAR FIRIES BALLYHAR GAA LOTTO: 11, 15, 21, jackpot not won. €30 to Luke Henderson, Firies; Catherine O'Connor, c/o Bridie; Tipperary Jim, Longfield; Margaret Crowley, Dromore and Pat Goulding, c/o Bridie. The draw tonight will be in the airport. 31 CARD DRIVE at Farranfore Hall Sat 11th: 1st L and A Moriarty; 2nd D. West, S. Moriarty; P O'Connor, D Daly; raffle, M. Allen, F. Lenihan, L. O'Connor, L. Kennedy, M. O'Connor. Host Families wanted for u12, u13 and u14 boys visiting our club from Manchester on the June Bank Holiday weekend with a return visit later in the year Your assistance would be greatly appreciated Please contact Bridie Breen 085 16445145, Shane Flynn 086 1943436, Roger O'Donoghue 087 6772395 Seniors: Firies 0-6 Templenoe 2-15 An understrenght Firies side were defeated by a strong Templenoe side in F/fore on Saturday evening. This was a game Firies were always struggling in and with some questionable refferring decisions not helping came up well short on the score board Next up Scartaglin away next weekend. U14's started their East Kerry League campaign on Monday evening against Dr Crokes report to follow next week Would any person wanting to use the field please book it with the club secretary as the pitch is in high demand at this time of the year FOSSA Lotto 19/05/2013: Numbers Drawn: 4, 18, 22, 23 No Winner.€40 consolation prize winners: J, D, R, S Griffin; Kathleen Griffin; Michelle Cunningham - Fossa; Davy Fleming - Curragh; Aisling Fleming - Curragh. Tickets on sale at the Golden Nugget Bar, The Travel Inn, The Old Killarney Inn, McCarthy's Centra Shop, The Laurels Bar, Killarney and from committee members. Fossa Seniors: Round 5 County League Division 5 - Fossa 3-19 Asdee 0-5 Fossa remain top of the Division 5 table alongside Duagh after another strong performance last Saturday evening. The scoreline said it all and just 15 minutes into the first half the Fossa players started to pull away from their opposition with great attack play and some solid defence. Next up fro Fossa is away to Duagh on Saturday evening in an exciting top of the table clash. All support welcome. Community Games: Training is on every Thursday from 7-8 in the the Old Fossa GAA Field for the children who qualified for the County Finals in Castleisland on June 22-23. It is essential the all qualifying athletes attend training to give them the best chance for qualifying in the County Finals and go on to represent Kerry in National Finals. Coiste na nOg: Fossa u16 girls. The u16 girls had their first game last Wednesday evening. We traveled to Ballylongford where we played Beale. Fossa got off to a great start with Rebecca Daly and Niamh o Sullivan dominating midfield. Giving plenty supply of ball to forwards Sarah Doody and Hanna o Donoghue who duly converted.Fossa's half back line of Erica McGlynn, Katie Talbot and Fiona Kissane were very strong on the night. Fay o Donoghue controlled her full back line ably assisted by Ciara Griffin and Georgina Wharton. Fossa went in ahead at half time. The second half finished much as the first with Fossa dominating play. A well worked in pass from Lauren Rintoul saw young Aoife Doody taken down in the square with the referee awarding a penalty. Aoife was unlucky not to score with the Beale goalie just getting her fingertips to it. Fossa ran out comfortable winners in this one. Thanks to the all the girls who traveled on the evening and to Fossa for supplying transport. The girls are at home to Moyvane, Wednesday 22nd @ 7pm. Fossa u14 girls are at home to Listowel Emmett's, Sunday 19th @ 5pm. All support welcome. U12 Girls: In their first game in Division 1 of the Co League on Friday last, the U12 girls had a fantastic 1 point victory over a strong Rathmore team in Fossa. This was a nail-biting encounter between 2 evenly matched teams. Fossa started brillantly and lead at half time by 6 points. Rathmore came back strongly in the 2nd half and Fossa found scores hard to come by. When the final whistle blew, Fossa were ahead by the slimest of margins. Final score Fossa 2-4 Rathmore 2-3. The next U12 game is against Listowel Emmets in Listowel this coming Friday. GLENBEIGH GLENCAR Glenbeigh/Glencar travelled to take on CastleIsland Desmonds in a top of the table clash on Saturday evening. Both teams were unbeaten in the county league and this was the first big test of their league campaigns. Gavin O Grady pointed his first free kick of the game within the first five minutes, conditions were not conducive to good football with plenty of rain and wind. Desmond's quickly responded and raced into a 0-04 to 0-01 lead. Every ball was fiercely contested and the game was full of incidents on and off the ball. James O' Sullivan and ColinMcGillicuddy were in the heat of things in the middle of the field. Feargal Griffin was moved to midfield after 20 minutes which helped the visitors gain a foothold in the match and when Gavin O Grady pointed his second free kick there was only a kick of the ball in in. Glenbeigh/Glencar were dealt a blow when Rory O' Connor who was having a very good game had to go off with a suspected broken nose. Desmond's were the better team in the first half but Glenbeigh/Glencar were competing all over the park with some great workman like performance's from FeargalGriffin, Jeremiah Hoare, Danny O Sullivan, Kieran Doyle, James /Stephen O' Sullivan, Donogh McGillicuddy and Vincent Hoare. Desmond'sscored their fifth point of the half but the visitors quickly responded with another Gavin O Grady free kick. The halftime score was 0-05 to 0-03 Glenbeigh/Glencar started the second with much more aggression than their counterparts and were rewarded with a free kick after an excellent solo run which spanned half the length of the field from Fearga lGriffin which Gavin duly converted. Jeremiah and Vincent Hoare combined well which resulted in Jeremiah scoring Glenbeigh/Glencar first point from play of the evening to level the match. From the resulting kick out Desmond's raced up the field and quickly regained their advantage with their sixth point.There was very little between the teams and the game was in the melting pot, Gavin O' Grady converted his fourth free of the match to level the scores at six points a piece. Desmond upped the pace again and through a combination of some good play, good luck and some controversial refereeing managed to notch up three unanswered points to make the score 0-09 to 0-06. GLENFLESK SYMPATHY: Sympathy is extended to the family and relatives of Fr. Owen O'Leary, Readrinagh and Dalgan Park, Navan who passed away recently. Ar dheis De go raibh a anam. COUNTY LEAGUE DIVISION 3: The Glenflesk senior team, sponsored by MacSweeney's Corner House, were defeated by Scartaglin, in Glenflesk on Sunday May 19th in the fifth round of the county league, on a scoreline of 1-09 to 0-13. This was a very tight game throughout with no more than two points between the sides at any stage. Scartaglin had the better of the first- half exchanges and were two points to the good at the break, 0-7 to 0-5. However, a Mike O'Shea goal early in the second half turned the tide in Glenflesk's favour. Both sides went point-for-point in a closely fought second-half with Glenflesk maintaining a one-point advantage almost until the end. The tide finally swung in Scartaglin's favour, and they secured the final two points of the game to claim a one-point victory. The sixth game in the county league will be away to Ballymac this Friday night May 24th at 7:30pm. GLENFLESK GAA LOTTO: Next Club Lotto Draw to be held on Sunday May 26th 2013, in John Dan's, Jackpot: €3,000. Tickets available: on request, in local shops and bars. If you have difficulties purchasing a ticket contact Jimmy O'Shea at 085 174 1219 or Denis O'Donoghue at 087 2257915. GLENFLESK LADIES FOOTBALL U-14: Well done to Keelie O'Connor, Abbey Logan and Emma Dineen who were members of the Kerry U-14 team that were runners-up in the All-Ireland Blitz held in Mullingar on Saturday May 18th. The Kerry U-14 team also produced a fantastic performance to draw with Cork in the Munster final recently, and were considered very unlucky not to have won the game. MASS FOR OUR YOUNG EMIGRANTS: In the past four years over 300,000 of our young people have left Ireland. In solidarity with them, and especially with those who have gone from our parish, our families and our friends, a mass has been arranged in St Agatha's Church, Glenflesk on Friday 31st May at 7:45 pm. For further details please contact Kathleen 087 7647177, Patricia 087 9048659, or Mary 086 0529008. If you cannot attend, please forward names to any member of the Glenflesk Legion of Mary. CUL CAMP: This year's GAA Cúl Camp will take place in Glenflesk from 8th - 12th July. Primary schools in the parish should have received application forms at this stage. Parents wishing to enrol their children in the camp can complete the application forms and forward to the Kerry GAA Cul Camp Office at Austin Stack Park, or parents can register online at www.gaa.ie/kelloggsculcamp GNEEVEGUILLA Gneeveguilla gaa lotto results for Monday 13th of May.No jackpot winner numbers drawn , 2, 14, 23, 28. Next weeks jackpot €14, 800 please support. €40 Timmy Mac Bridge Bar €40 Kathleen McCarthy Gullane Cross €40 Donal Donnelly Coom €40 K O'Brien Han Donnelly €40 Daragh Pierce Millstreet. Gneeveguilla played Tarbert in a very entertaining game in Gneeveguilla today. Tarbert opened the scoring trough G O'Sullivan. This was followed by a L Murphy free berfore D Leahy pounced to bang the ball into the back of the net. Gneeveguilla fought back troughDJ O'Connor until D Leahy pounced again for his second goal.. Further scores from JP Brosnan and D Murphy before half time left the half time score Gneeveguilla 0-5 Tarbert 2-3. Gneeveguilla started the second half brightly and once again L Murphy started to pick away at the Tarbert lead. Mike Murphy then leveled it for Gneeveguilla before P O'Connor slotted over what proved to be the winner. Full time score Gneeveguilla 0-13 Tarbert 2-06. Gneeveguilla gaa would like to wish Mike Murphy all the best in the next few months. KEEL Club Lotto: There was no winner of the Lotto draw held on Sunday May 19th, Numbers drawn were 2, 12, 14 and 25. €50 winner was Joan Allman, c/o Milltown Fruit and Veg. €25 winners were, Kathleen Foley, No 6 Ross Cottages, Jamie Cirillo, Laharn Cross Milltown, John A. Cahillane, Gortanedin and Pat Casey, Seacrest, Cromane. Next weeks Jackpot is €10, 600 and will be held in Murphys bar on Sunday May 26th. County League: Keel continued their good run of form with a 5 point victory over Beale in Ballybunion on Sunday. Good performances from Gavin Evans, on his first senior start, Eoin O'Neill and sub Eoghan O'Connor among others helped Keel to a 0-15 to 0-10 win. Team Michael Evans, Gavin Evans, Gary Nagle, Barth Murphy, Aaron Cahillane, Martin Burke, James Nagle, Tom Ladden, James Long, Eoin O'Neill, Gary Sayers, Emmet Ashe, Terry O'Sullivan, Mike O'Connor, Liam Sheehan. Subs used Eoghan O'Connor and Liam O'Shea. Keel play Castlegregory at 7.30pm on Saturday May 25th in Keel in round 6 of the County League. Junior County League: Keel B team host Glenbeigh\Glencar on Friday May 24th at 7.30pm. KENMARE SHAMROCKS U12 Football: Kenmare U12 's having been promoted to Division 2A played away to John Mitchels on Sunday night. Kenmare A's came away with a win putting in a great team performance as usual, each player could deserve a mention but superb goal keeping from Gearoid Doyle kept them in the game when The Mitchels looked dangerous . The final scoreline read Kenmare 6-12 John Mitchels 1-11. Meanwhile Kenmare B's took on their opponents securing a great win over the Mitchel 's B team their final score reading 10-6 to 3-7, great performances from Richard Cullen, Reinier Offerins, David Ciu Ciu and Jack Downing. Junior Football League: Kenmare 3-7 St. Michael's/Foilmore 1-9 Aquatic antics in Kenmare! A good win against the odds in the aftermath of a tremendous downpour that left the school pitch with dampish area's. The first half was tight with Michael's/Foilmore making the best of their chances and leading 1-3 to 0-3 at the break, but Kenmare certainly had chances - three good goal opportunities which didn't quite stick. Our points came from David Crowley (good all-round game), Sean Murphy and a fisted effort from Enda Crowley. Micheals/Foilmore piled on the pressure at the start of the second half. A point after a minute and another that was tipped over the bar by the retreating Stephen O'Shea. By the 45th minute we were 1-7 to 0-3 down and given the slipping-and-sliding it looked like it was time to start inflating the lifeboats. Then, a tidal wave of scores. A David Crowley point was followed by two Ciaran Fitzgibbon goals. The first came from a re-bounded Brian Clifford shot and shark-like he pounced to put us back in the game. On 50 minutes he had another bite, this time following up on a Sean Murphy shot. There was blood in the water and we smelled it. Fionan O'Sullivan floated a point and suddenly we were up, 3-4 to 1-8. Ciaran Fitzgibbon had another goal ruled out but we were on top now and we brought the boat home fully loaded with points from David Crowley, Dean Cassidy and Ross Crowley. It was wet and watery ...but fierce enjoyable! Senior Football League Round 5: Kenmare 0-6 Listowel 2-13. Listowel largely dominated this game from start-to-finish. We just couldn't get a foothold in the game and when it looked like we might, as Kevin O'Sullivan kicked a point with 13 minutes left to bring us within 5 points of Listowel, they kicked a goal and a point in reply and it was lights-out.The next round of the county League takes place on Sat evening next (25 th May) when we take on Gneeveguilla @7.30pm, Venue TBC. KILCUMMIN JUVENILE GAA CÚL CAMP: This year's Cúl Camp in Kilcummin will run from 15th - 19th July. Bookings for the Camp commenced on the 1st April and you can register at www.gaa.ie/kelloggsculcamps . JUVENILE ACADEMY: Unfortunately the weather meant that we had to cancel the juvenile academy last Saturday. The pitches were under severe pressure following the bad weather. With Holy Communion taking place next Saturday 25th May the academy will extend the break. Kilcummin's Juvenile Academy runs each Saturday from 10.30am until 11.45am. Boys and girls from 5 to 10 years old are all welcome to join their appropriate group on a Saturday morning to be trained by our volunteer coaches and trainers. Anybody who would like to participate and lend a hand during training sessions is more than welcome. Just say it to any of the mentors and it will be easily arranged. Many hands make light work!!! UNDER 12 BOYS: Under 12 boys continued their campaign in the County League at home to Fossa. On this occasion both Kilcummin teams were beaten. The boys will continue their campaign when they play Finuge at home on Sunday 26th May at 7pm in Round 3 of the County League. UNDER 12 GIRLS: The under 12 girls had a great win at home against Laune Rangers on Friday 17th. In a tightly contested game Kilcummin came out on top by the narrowest of margins winning by 3-4 to 2-6. All the girls played really well in a tough game but the performances of Anna Hannigan, Aoife O'Sullivan and Liadain O'Connor at centre-back deserve a mention. The under 12 girls will play John Mitchells away in Tralee at 7pm on Wednesday 22nd May. CO LEAGUE: Kilcummin lost by two points to Milltown/ Castlemaine on Sunday in round 5 of the Co League. There was a real feeling after the game that we threw this won away and I suppose its hard to argue with that assessment but we can still take a lot of positives from the performance. The management team are working hard with the players and the level of commitment is there for all to see. The team is a work in progress and its important to support them through this transitional period. The game saw us create many chances and some good performances and we look forward to the rest of the league in a positive manner. Team: Sh. Murphy, Dl Maher, Ch O'Leary, S. Brosnan, E O'Connor, E O'Sullivan, T. Cooper, Sh McSweeney, (0-2) K, Gorman, Dm O'Leary, G O'Leary, Jer Sheehan (0-5) K McCarthy (0-3) I Devane, DJ Fleming (0-1). Subs used R O'Connor, K, Teahan. Our next game is away to Spa on this Sat at 7.30pm. KILLARNEY LEGION FÉILE GIRLS: With the u14 girls getting ready to represent club and county in the All Ireland Féile competition in Derry in the summer preparations for all the logistical requirements are being put in place.A number of fund raisers have been arranged by the sub committees set up for this purpose and the first event will be a cake sale to be held in the clubhouse on Saturday 25th.May.Following on this there will be a coffee morning which will be in Lord Kenmares on Saturday 15th.June.and we encourage as many people as possible to support these events.There has been tremendous support from the parents and families and any and all sponsorship would be gratefully accepted.If you are interested or can help in any way please contact Sean Murphy or any club officer.Further events are in the pipeline so watch this space. COUNTY LEAGUE RD.5 Killarney Legion 0-10 Dr.Crokes 2-17 This Rd.5 County League game played in Derreen proved to be one way traffic as Dr.Crokes overcame a slow start to comfortably see off the Legion. WELCOME SPONSORSHIP: The club are delighted to announce that Four Star Pizza have come on board as sponsors of our u14's.This is most welcome and continues a long standing involvement with the same company as they have sponsored the boys u14 sides that played in the Féile finals.Again it shows the importance of the help voluntary organisations get from local business and they deserve to be supported in return. THUNDER AND LIGHTENING FINAL: The minors final against St.Mary's/Renard was called off just before half-time (rightly so) for the safety of the players and those in attendance due to the thunder and lightening storm that hit the county on Friday last.There were no complaints from either side and in view of the risk involved it was a case of better safe than sorry.It looks unlikely now that the game will be replayed before the leaving cert.For the record the original ''thunder and lightening'' final was the All Ireland hurling final between Cork and Kilkenny in 1939, which Kilkenny won by a point. BEST WISHES: Best wishes to Scotty O Mahoney who is recovering from knee surgery. SYMPATHY The Killarney Legion Club extends it's sincerest sympathy to Jimmy D'Arcy and the O Sullivan D'Arcy Family on the death of John R.I.P.Ar Dheis Dé go raibh a Anam dílis. LOTTO Winning no's - 8, 10, 20, 22.No winner.5 lucky dips - (1) Mary O Sullivan/Mangan, Knocknahoe.(2) Loan O Leary, c/o Quills.(3) Majella Reen, St.Annes Rd.(4) Paddy Griffin, Crosstown.(5) Tomasz Mlynarczyk, 3c Lime Avenue.Next weeks jackpot €4, 200.Draw on Sunday 26th May Murphy's of College St. LAUNE RANGERS SENIORS: The Seniors played Austin Stacks on Sunday last in the Co. League. A strong second half comeback wasn't enough as Stacks ran out victorious on a scoreline of Laune Rangers 0-07 to 0-16 Austin Stacks. The Seniors are away to Milltown/Castlemaine this Saturday 25th at 7:30pm in Milltown. B-TEAM: The B's hosted Duagh on Sunday last in the Track. A good start from the lads wasn't enough to overcome to strong Duagh side. Duagh winning 2-15 to 1-02. The B's are away to Sneem/Derrynane this weekend. Time and venue to be confirmed. C-TEAM: The C team have a bye this weekend. MINORS: The County Minor League, Division 3B Final vs Milltown/Castlemaine took place on Friday last in the Track. A quick start from our boys saw them build up an early lead. The team continued to work hard throughout the game in terrible conditions to emerge victorious at the final whistle. Laune Rangers 3-10 to 2-06 Milltown/Castlemaine. Well done to Terence, Joe, John, John and all the team on this fantastic achievement! U-6, U-8, U-10 BOYS: Training for the U-6, U-8 and U-10 boys continues on Sunday mornings at 10am in the Track. New players welcome. SENIOR LADIES: The Senior Ladies played Inbhear Scéine Gaels in the Senior County League Division 1 Final on Sunday last winning 3-22 to 2-05 claiming the title for the 4th year in a row. Congratulations to Cora and the girls. U-14 GIRLS: The U-14 girls played Milltown/Listry in Cloon on Sunday afternoon winning 4-10 to 4-08. There is no game this weekend. U-6, U-8, U-10 & U-12 GIRLS: Training for the U-6, U-8, U-10 and U-12 girls will continue on Wednesday's at 6pm in the J.P. O'Sullivan Park. New players are welcome. LOTTO: Lotto draw for Sunday May 19th. Jackpot €6, 600 - No winner. Numbers drawn: 06 - 09 - 18 - 21. Consolation Prizes: €100 Margaret O'Grady, sold at CYMS. €50 Anna Doyle, sold by Patrick Pigott. Credit Union Vouchers: €50 Mary Taylor, sold by Margaret Browne. €50 Dominic Crowley, sold by Mulvihills Pharmacy. Next week's jackpot will be €6, 800 LOTTO ROTA: May Lotto Team: Edso Crowley, Pat O'Shea, Danny Healy. VOLUNTEERS: Help is needed at the Lotto on Sunday nights. If you could spare an hour, pop along to the CYMS hall at 8pm. CLOTHES COLLECTION: Laune Rangers are holding an old clothes and textiles collection. Anyone with old or unwanted items can bring them along to The Track on Wednesday evening's from 6pm - 7pm or Sunday morning's from 10am - 11:30am. Items accepted: Mens and womens clothes, bags, belts, scarves (any condition); shoes, boots, wellies (pairs or odd); bed linen, curtains, blankets, towels (no duvets); children's clothes, soft toys, mobile phones. LISTRY Listry beat neighbours Beaufort in this div 3 county league match played in Beaufort on Sat evening last. This was the first meeting of these clubs in over 25 years and there was a huge interest in the outcome. The home side got of to the better start and were leading 3 pts to nil after 15 minutes. Listry came more into the game in the second quarter and actually drew level but Beaufort again went on to score 2 points to lead at the break 0-5 to 0-3. Beaufort should probably have been further ahead at this stage but a wonderful display by the Listry full back line of Danny Wrenn, Kieran Kennedy and Kevin Courtney in breaking up many attacks kept Listry in the game. Once Listry got to grips with the short kick outs they eventually took control of the game and when Billy O Brien pounced to crash a great ball to the net to bring them level they went on to win on the score 1-10 to 0-9. This victory keeps Listry in second place in the table but they face table toppers Desmonds in the next round in Faha on Sat evening at 7-30. MILLTOWN CASTLEMAINE Seniors: The seniors defeated Kilcummin in the County League with the score line Milltown/Castlemaine 0.13 Kilcummin 0.11. They will now play Laune Rangers on Saturday at 7.30pm in Milltown. B Team: The B team will play An Ghaeltacht in the Junior League on Friday evening at 7.30pm in Ghealtacht. Minors: The minors were defeated by Laune Rangers in the County League with the scoreline Milltown/Castlemaine 2.07 Laune Rangers 3.10. Under 12's: The under 12's were defeated by Ardfert on Sunday. They will now play Annascaul on Sunday in Milltown at 7pm. We encourage people to come out and support them. Under6, 8 and 10: Training will take place Thursday evening at 6.15pm. Membership: Family membership is €100, Adults €30 and Students/OAP €15. Full membership will allow free admission to all home County League games and the draw for an All-Ireland ticket. Lotto: This week's Lotto will take place in Griffin's Bar on this Friday 24th May. The Jackpot is €2, 400 and tickets are available in local businesses. Thanks for your support. Last Man Standing: Results to date have seen wins for Antrim, Mayo and Westmeath. There will be an update next week after the Tyrone-Donegal game on how many players remain. REENARD Juniors: The B team had their first outing of the year last friday against Keel. It was a good game and very close from start to finish with David Sulllivan scoring some good frees and Kevin Kelly, Kevin Curran, Daragh Fitzgearld with points from play and Pa McGill and Eoghan McCrohan playing well at the back They tried very hard to get the equaliser but it wasn't meant to be and they lost out by one point to Keel. Seniors: The Seniors had a long trip to Knocknogashel and didn't come away with the win they were looking for as they lost by 5 points which could be due to the fact they were missing a few key players. It was Renard who started off the better and had most of the chances but will rue the goal chances they had missed at the start but they clocked a few points on the board from Brian Sullivan but these were not enough for the lads! Under 14 Final: Congratulations to the Renard/St.Mary's Under-14 Team who won the Final of the Division 6 (13 a-side) Lee Strand County League recently. Winning the toss, captain Blaine McCarthy chose to play with the wind, leading to a solid 9-point lead at half-time. Facing into a strong wind in the 2nd half, all players fought hard to maintain the lead and eventually pulled away to win on a final score of: Renard/St.Mary's 6-07 v Finuge 2-04. Congratulations to all the Renard players; Blaine McCarthy, Eoghan McDaid, Jim Sugrue, Michael O'Leary, Muiris Fitzgerald, Brian Corocoran, Adrian O'Sullivan, Stephen Corcoran and Ian Moriarty and their team mates for St. Mary's , Jared Barham, Oisin Moran, Ryan O'Sullivan, Shane O'Donoghue, Jack Landers, Jack Mahony, Patrick Divane, Aidan O'Sullivan, Gareth Evans, Daragh O'Shea. It was a great team performance. Thanks are due to the Trainers; Frank McCarthy, Patrick McDaid, Frank Curran and Kieran McCarthy. SCARTAGLEN COUNTY LEAGUE: Scartaglen picked up two further very valuable County League points following their trip to Glenflesk on Sunday last where they defeated the local side 0-13 to 1-9 in Division 3, in a very tight and close contest. At half time Scart led 0-7 to 0-5. Early in the second half Glenflesk went ahead with a goal from Michael O Shea. The sides were level on a few occasions during this half but with Mike Coakley and Pa Rahilly in good scoring form Scart took control late in the game with the former kicking the equaliser and the latter scoring the winner to bag the points at stake. Scartaglen are at home To Firies on this Saturday evening May 25 in Round 6 of the Credit Union County League Division 3. LADIES FOOTBALL: Congratulations and well done to the Scartaglen Ladies Football team and their coach Hugh O Connor who won the Senior County League Division 2 Final when defeating Abbeydorney 2-11 to 1-5 in Milltown on Sunday afternoon last. This was a great victory for the local ladies who gain promotion to Division 1 for the first time in the clubs 24 year history. Scartaglen U14 ladies narrowly lost to Dr. Crokes in a high scoring game when the sides met at Scartaglen on Sunday evening last. The final score was Dr. Crokes 5-12 Scartaglen 5-9. GAA LOTTO DRAW: Scartaglen GAA Clubs GAA Lotto Draw took place in O Connors Bar on Sunday night May 12. The jackpot was €12, 000 and was not won. Numbers drawn were: 11, 18, 21, 26. Consolation prize winners from the Lucky Dip draw were: €40 – Timothy Kerins, Knockrour; €30 – Brendan Cronin, Gneeveguilla; Josh Kerin, Gortgloss; €20 – Ruairi Murphy, Coolnageragh; Joan Roche, Cordal; Emily McGaley, Castleisland. The next draw is on Sunday June 2 in Flemings Bar. SKELLIG RANGERS Round 5 in the County League was the fixture this weekend as Skellig Rangers made the trip to Ardfert on Saturday evening with a final score of 3-5 to 1-11, a draw despite Skellig Rangers completely dominating proceedings in the first half. ortly after Bernard Walsh drove up the field from full The result now means that Skellig Rangers are in second place on the table on 7 points, 2 behind Finuge while Ardfert picked up their 3rd draw meaning they have 3 points, second from bottom. Skellig Rangers: Padraig O' Sullivan, Stephen O' Sullivan, Bernard Walsh(0-1), Brian Murphy, Gerard O' Sullivan, Kevin Martin, Mike Keating, Stephen O' Sullivan(1-0), Aidan O' Sullivan (0-2), Brian O' Sullivan, Brian Hickey(0-2), Alan Devane (0-2), Ciaran Keating (0-4), Martin O' Sullivan, Micheál O' Sullivan. Subs used: Ronan O' Shea for Micheál O' Sullivan, Mike Brennan, Bernard Casey, Brendan O' Sullivan, Brendan Keating, Declan O' Sullivan, Senior Football League Rd 6- Sat May 25th @ 7.30pm Skellig Rangers v Annascaul at home Junior league Round 3- Fri May 24th @ 7pm Skellig rangers v Listry At home. U-16 south kerry league final fri 24th May @ 6pm in valentia skellig/valentia v st Mary's/renard U-12 county league round 3 Sunday 26th May @7pm In portmagee, Skellig Rangers v St Michaels. SOUTHERN GAELS Southern Gaels had a very busy week with their u.12, 14 16 and senior teams in action. U.12s: They played John Mitchels in Foilmore pitch in a very entertaining game. It was score for score for alot of the game but John Mitchels ran out eventual winners on a scoreline of John Mitchels 6.04 to Southern Gaels 4.07. U14s: They travelled to Lispole to play Corca Dhuibhne on Sunday evening. They had a good victory on the night winning on a scoreline of Southern Gaels 4. 14 to Corca Dhuibhnes 2. 06. U16s: They travelled to Kenmare on Wednesday evening to play the local side and in a very tight game won by two points.Southern Gaels 1. 08 to Kenmares 1. 06. Seniors: Our seniors played Castleisland Desmonds in the B semi final of the County League on Saturday evening in Con Keating park. They played against the wind in first half and went in at half time 3 points down following some very good work by the defence. With the wind in the second half they started to dominate a bit more around the middle and with the forwards taking their scores well won on a scoreline of Southern Gaels 3 16 to Castleisland Desmonds 1 14 in a very entertaining match. Well done to all players who togged out with the club this week. Thanks to Foilmore and St. Marys club for the use of their pitches and to all parents who travelled on buses to games. SPA Minor Div 3 County Final Spa v Listowel Emmets: A keenly contested minor County Div 3 Final between Spa and Listowel Emmets took place in testing conditions last Friday night in Austin Stack Park. Listowel who were aided by a fresh breeze raced into a early 2 point lead , however points from Liam Kearney and John Murhill settled down the Killarney men putting the boys in blue on level terms. At this stage Shane Cronin and Liam Kearney were turning the screw at mid field winning more than their lion's share. Further points were exchanged until a true ball found Cormac Kenneally on the 20 yard line facing the Emmet's keeper. Kenneally nonchalantly chipped the ball into his hands before coolly finishing to the back of the net. Further points from Aidan Shepherd and eventual man of the match Liam Kearney ensured Spa held on to a 1-5 to 0-4 at half time. The North Kerrymen were never going to lie down and back they came on the restart scoring 1-1 in as many minutes. The game was now in the melting pot and here is where the Spa showed their true metal. Shane Cronin ran through the Emmets defence and was hauled down on the 13 meter line, and converted the resultant free. Super sub Mike Foley after scoring a point laid on a fabulous lob into the hands on Lorcan Howe who clinically finished to the back of the Emmets net extending the lead to 4 points. Now Spa had their tails up but Emmets weren't finished, unheralded defending by Tim Hussey and a magnificent point blank save from Aaron Farrell kept the East Kerry men in front. A final imperious point by Aidan Shepherd ensured the Spa men won out as worthy champions 2-8 to 1-7. Team : Aaron Farrell, Conor Cronin, Tim Hussey, Conor Kearney, Darragh O'Donoghue (capt), Daniel O'Donoghue, Darren O'Connor, Shane Cronin (1pt), Liam Kearney (2pts), Aidan Shepherd (3pts), Lorcan Howe (1 goal) , Corey Doyle, John Murhill (1 pt), Anthony Magnier, Cormac Kenneally (1goal). Subs James Magee, Paul Brosnan, Michael McCarthy, Michael Foley (1pt), Eoin Fitzgerald, Daniel O'Sullivan. East Kerry Div 1 Under 16 Championship Final: Spa faced cross town rivals Dr Crokes on Monday evening in Fitzgerald Stadium in this 16 Div 1 East Kerry Final . Played in wet blustery conditions both teams served up a feast of attacking football. After an early exchange of points Dr Crokes raced a 3 point lead after 15 minutes. Spa fought their way back into the contest with 4 pointed frees from the boots of Mike Foley and Evan Cronin. Another beautiful taken point by Stephen Kelliher ensured that Spa went in only a point down. After half time Dr Crokes tacked on another score before Mike Foley gave Spa the lead for the first time by crashing home a ball to the Dr Crokes net. Once again Dr Crokes picked of another point before Ciaran Spillane thundered home another Spa goal, giving the boys in blue a 5 point lead. But Dr Crokes were not going to lie down and doggedly picked off another 3 points leaving only 2 points between the teams. The game was now up for grabs with tensions frayed when up popped Darragh Moynihan to get on the end of a ball and slid yet another Spa goal to the net. To their credit Dr Crokes fought on and never gave up and converted an injury time penalty to leave the final score 3-9 to 1-11 It was a terrific team performance from every member of the panel who showed true grit after a disappointing East Kerry League final a couple of weeks earlier against the same opposition. Micheal Kearney, Shane Howe, Aidan Fleming, David Moynihan, Mike McCarthy, Eoin Fitzgerald, Eric O'Donoghue, Ciaran Spillane, Evan Cronin, David Spillane, Mikey Moynihan, Darragh Moynihan, Fergal O'Donoghue, Mike Foley, Stephen Kelliher. Subs: David Carroll, Aidan Kelly, John McKenna, Ciaran Sheehan, Mike Shannon, Eoghan Cronin, Eamonn Lavin, Robin Coffey, Patrick Courtney, Jack O'Donoghue, Fionan Walsh Senior Ladies Semi Final County Division 3 Shield Spa 5-5 Rathmore 3-8. Determination and hard work by our senior ladies and never giving up gave them this victory. Rathmore were the much stronger team in the league and knew we were up against strong opposition. New additions of Debbie Murphy and Maggie Doherty played massive roles in this victory. The backs were under pressure from the start and we trailed by one point in the second half. With the wind with us in the second half the ball made its way to our half forward line and Mags Cronin, Debbie Murphy, Ciara Murphy, Katie Purtill, Aisling Coffey and Niamh Kearney all found a scoring result. Our backs were solid with the ever reliable Katie Gleeson, ably assisted by the superb Cassanda Buckley, Alice Culloty, Sinead Cronin, Laura Herlihy and Niamh Hickey saw the team with a three point victory to reach a county final. Kerry Senior Ladies National Division 2 League Final Congrats to Cassandra Buckley, her team mates and manager William O Sullivan, on their victory over Galway to win the Division 2 National league Final. Cass is the Captain of Spa Senior Ladies this year also. U16 girls Had to concede our last game against Finuge/St. Senans due to the majority of the girls preparing for their Junior Cert and injuries. Next game away to Legion Wed 22nd U12 girls Spa v Ballyduff Promoted to a higher division this year after winning only one game in the preliminary rounds. No show from Ballyduff but our girls look forward to the next game away, OBITUARIES The past weeks have marked the passing of two of notable business personalities in the persons of John O'Sullivan Darcy Upper Lissivigeen and Ralph Dyaazer late of Tullig , John O'Sullivan Darcy who started out in the family business in College Street as a farrier went on to establish O'Sullivan Darcy Engineering with his brother Sheamus and later branching out to establish his own very successful engineering business in the Tiernaboul Industrial Estate which became a huge employer of the local labour force.As well as being an astute business man, John also devoted much of his life to local voluntary organisations including the Killarney Branch of the Society of St Vincent- De- Paul.Several members of his family have made a notable contribution to the local Spa GAA club in various capacities including players and administrators, with Deirdre as current club secretary and Cait as East Kerry Board delegate, , Sympathy is extended to his wife Cait and family. Ralph Dyaazer late of Tullig who passed away in Holland recently was for many years the Chief Executive of the Pretty Polly Hosiery Factory Upper Park Road which during the era that it functioned had a workforce of in excess of 1,000 and was one of the leading industries in Munster. Sympathy is also extended to Mary O'Leary–Casey Dunrine on the death of her mother-in-law Min Casey.May They Rest in Peace. Dancing at the Crossroads at Lissivigeen School. Lissivigeen Community Alert and Lissivigeen N.S. are having a crossroads dance at Lissivigeen school on Sunday 2nd June from 2pm to 5pm. Music by Neily O' Connor. Special guests on the day include the Spa set dancers, Norrita Cronin and Darren Nagle performing brush dances and Donal O' Sullivan, seanchaí. Everyone welcome. Admission 5 euro.Refreshments served. SPA HAPPY FEET SUMMER CAMP : July 22nd - 26th July.Conor Gleeson is holding this safe and enjoyable summer camp once again with qualified instructors. Contact Conor for detail 0872565142 CLOTHES DRIVE: Thanks to everyone who donated clothes to our annual collection. All proceeds go to our underage and Coiste na nOg. We collect all year. ST MARY'S Lotto: This week's lotto draw was held in The Anchor Bar on Sunday night. There was no winner of the jackpot which was €7000. Consolation prizes went to: €100: Donny Mahoney, The Big Smoke. €50: Eileen Garvey, Foilmore €20: Stephanie O Neill, Woodbrook. €20: Paddy Coffey, Old Road. €20: Maire Fenton, Dromod. Next weeks draw will be held in The Corner House with a jackpot of €7100 . TEMPLENOE Results: Div3 County SFL, Firies 0-06, Templenoe 2-15 Fixtures: Div6 County JFL, Templenoe B V Beaufort B, Fri 24/05/13 @ 7:30pm in Dromore Div3 County SFL, Templenoe V Cordal, Sat 25/05/13 @ 7:30pm in Templenoe U12 County League, Templenoe V Sneem / Derrynane, Sun 26/05/13 @ 7pm in Templenoe U14 East Kerry League, Templenoe / Tuosist V Currow, Mon 27/05/13 @ 7pm in Templenoe Firies 0-06, Templenoe 2-15 A second half scoring spree from Templenoe gave them a good win over Firies in damp conditions in Firies last Saturday. Adrian Spillane opened the scoring by converting a 45' and Brian Crowley followed with an early goal. Points by Brian Crowley, Cian Hallissey, Danny Cahalane and John Rice left the half time score Firies 0-06, Templenoe 1-05 A second half goal by Cian Hallissey put Templenoe in the driving seat. Templenoe were ahead by 2-09 to 0-06 when Firies were awarded a penalty which they missed. Templenoe finished the game with points from Adrian Spillane, Kieran McCarthy, Martin Reilly, Sean Sheehan and Teddy Doyle giving Templenoe a win on a final score of Firies 0-06, Templenoe 2-15 Templenoe Team: Anthony Sheehan (C), Mike Hallissey, Kieran O Neill, Daniel O Neill, Joe Sheehan, Tadhg Morley, John Spillane, Sean Sheehan, Adrian Spillane, John Rice, Danny Cahalane, John Moriarty, Cian Hallissey, Denis O Neill, Brian Crowley, Teddy Doyle, Shane Cremin, Martin Reilly, Donal Casey Club Membership: Templenoe GAA Club membership is due for 2013. Please contact Club Register Barry Clifford and Niamh Granville to pay. Membership fees are the same as last year, Senior €40 and Juvenile €10 WATERVILLE LOTTO RESULTS- Draw of 16th in the Fisherman's with jackpot €2, 750. Numbers Drawn 05-14-20-25 No winner. €50 each Des O'Connell, Renard (yearly); Denis Donnelly, London (online); John Cronin, Waterville. Next draw 23rd in the Villa with jackpot €2,800. Kerryman 
