middle east
{  
    April 06 2015 11:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/sport/east-division-claim-battle-31121181.html }
The East Division, consisting of players from St Michael's, Shamrock Gaels, Eastern Harps, Owenmore Gaels, Ballymote and Geevagh won the inaugural County Sligo Under-16 Divisional title in Scarden on Thursday, March 26th on a score line of 4-10 to 0-12 thanks to a two minute goal blitz 20 minutes into the second half.   The score line does not tell the true story of this game - it was a tight affair for most of the 60 minutes. The first half included a mix of fantastic long range points and excellent passages of open attacking football. The South led 0-6 to 0-5 after 20 minutes thanks to superb scores from Barry Gorman (0-2), Tommy Henry (0-2) and Cian Brett (0-2). St Michael's club man Ryan Walsh helped keep the East Division in the game at this stage hitting a number of excellent scores landing (0-4) while James O'Hara got the other. The game then changed in the latter part of the first half where John Mahon, Karl Mc Kenna and Evan Lavin started to get to grips in the middle of the park winning numerous kick outs. This, along with the danger of Walsh inside paid dividends when a foul was committed in the box and a penalty was given. Walsh himself coolly slotted the kick to leave a score line of 1-5 to 0-6. Walsh then hit a tremendous score from the left wing about 30 metres from goal to put two between the teams. However the South responded well before the break and Oisin Grehan drove a superb effort over the bar to leave the Half time score 1-6 to 0-7. The second half started with the South Division very much on top a brilliant score from Conan Marren and a free from the boot of Red Óg Murphy brought the sides level. At this stage the South Sligo lads were in a commanding position in the game but a fortuitous long range effort for a point from Niall Colsh caught South Division goalkeeper Jack Maher by surprise and ended up in the back of the net allowing the East to gain a foothold once more in the game. However the South lads regained composure and attacked the game once again and further points from Conan Marren, the target man in the full forward line, and the stylish Red Óg Murphy brought them back to within two points of their opponents. Kevin Healy landed a great long range effort for the East to extend the lead before the two minutes of madness happened in which O'Hara and Mahon hit the South Division net. Conan Marren and Ciaran Hannon swapped points in the closing minutes but the title was firmly heading to the East Division. Ronan Sweeney, a member of Niall Carew's county senior team set-up, presented the Cup to winning Captain John Mahon following proceedings. East as follows: Ultan Mc Kenna, Oisin Conlon (0-1), Ben Touhy, Johnathan East, Jack Foley, Karl McKenna, James Duffy,John Mahon (1-0), Evan Lavin, Kevin Healy (0-1), Niall Colsh (1-0), Conor Lavin, Roland Anderson, James O'Hara (1-1), Ryan Walsh (1-6). Subs used Patrick Benson, Seamus Hailstones, Ciaran Dorrian, Jake Stephenson, Ciaran Hannon (0-1). South: Jack Maher, Jon Durkin, Seamie O'Buille, Kevin O'Kennedy, Colm Doddy, Oisin Higgins, Niall Connolly, Sean McVeigh, Oisin Grehan (0-1), Red Og Murphy (0-2), Tommy Henry (0-2),Barry Gorman (0-2), Paul Connolly,Conan Marren (0-2) and Cian Brett. Sligo Champion 
