middle east
{  
    September 04 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/blood-and-agony-in-east-timor-26260842.html }
Anne Daly details the account of an Irish medical eyewitness to the deadly oppression`NO family has escaped being involved in some kind of horrific and traumatic event. Seeing it, hearing about it, seeing close friends and neighbours affected by it,'' Dr Dan Murphy told me when I met him in Dublin last week having last interviewed him in Dili, the East Timor capital, for a documentary, before his expulsion from the country for speaking out against the military backed militias. After very courageously coming out to vote last week against very violent intimidation by these same militias, the East Timorese have been thrust back into that hell of brutality that has been continuously inflicted on them since the Indonesian military occupation began in 1975. You do not ask: have you lost any family, but how many, when speaking to an East Timorese because everyone has been hurt, often most cruelly, since the illegal Indonesian invasion in 1975. Beneath their dignified demeanour, every Timorese has a story to tell. For many it is so painful that they cannot even talk about it, as I found myself when travelling inside East Timor. ``There are things we cannot talk about,'' a man called Jose told me in Dili, the East Timor capital. That so poignantly sums up how traumatised the Timorese people are after 24 years of brutal oppression.'' The stories are so shocking that sometimes you wonder will people outside find them hard to believe, such is the nature of the depravities inflicted on the East Timorese. One in three of the population has died during the occupation more than two hundred thousand people. Rape is widespread and very common, Dr Murphy said, as he had personally seen from the women he has treated during his nearly eight months at a clinic in Dili. He also had an opportunity to see first hand the effects of the occupation on the health of the Timorese population. A study had just been done in the village of Vacartete and of the 85 women who showed up on the day it was carried out, the overwhelming majority had been raped. The systematic rape of women is one of the most brutal aspects of the occupation. ``The young women and girls who would normally be confident and not worried about seeing a doctor, often are so afraid when I try to examine them, it was obvious they had been raped, and the medical examination rarely contradicted that diagnosis. One young mother told me that the militias had come for her two teenage daughters, asking for both of them, but she offered herself in place of them. However, despite her courage they raped her and then came back and raped the two daughters as well,'' Dr Murphy said. How do women recover from these rapes? And then there are the pregnancies that result from them. The women are marked for life because they have been raped by an Indonesian. And people know from the child's features the mother is a victim of rape. ``So many women have been psychologically damaged, humiliated and marked for life by rape. It is a terrible problem,'' Dr Murphy said. Dr Murphy said that he found cases where women were told that they could only have two children. Anti-fertility injections were administered against the will of the women or they were were given a hysterectomy without being told what kind of operation they were getting. Dr Murphy was so shocked by what he saw that he felt he could not remain silent. ``I was so appalled by what I found that I decided that I must expose it. So every time the media came I made contact with them. I did an interview with Portuguese television which was shown by satellite in East Timor and was seen by a militia leader. The militia came to the clinic when I was in the middle of consultations and told me I was on a black list and forced me to leave the country.'' Dr Murphy ran a family medical practice in Grinnell, Iowa, in the US for 14 years. He has always taken a stand for the oppressed and worked in Mozambique from 1979 to 1982. Dr Murphy also disagreed with the Vietnam War but did not run away, and went to prison for his convictions. ``There is no security for the East Timorese and they can be killed at any time. And that is reinforced over and over again because you see it happening. No one has escaped. One little eleven-year-old girl I treated came into the clinic with her elbow shattered by an M-16 bullet, and five minutes after she was hit, her ten-year-old brother was executed in front of her by the militias. You can take care of her physical wounds, but what do you for her mental state?'' Dr Murphy asked. Many women just stay out in the mountains as even when they need potentially life saving medical treatment, they are afraid to go for help because of the militias, Dr Murphy added. ``I treated nearly a thousand people who were attacked by the militias. And on top of all that, with no proper health care, poor nutrition, an internal refugee crisis which has doubled in the last two or three months, I estimate that between 50 and 100 people are dying every day from preventable diseases in addition to those being killed and wounded by the militias,'' he said. Dr Murphy said the militia are continuing to kill and maim with impunity as the police stand by.  * Anne Daly recently co-produced with Ronan Tynan the Esperanza documentary, Dropping the Number 10 for Dili, made in East Timor recently, and can be contacted by e-mail: annedaly@esperanza.ie 
