middle east
{ Ian O'Doherty 
    October 29 2019 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/ian-odoherty-he-may-claim-glory-for-al-baghdadi-but-trumps-betrayal-of-the-kurds-has-given-isil-a-second-chance-38640661.html }
'Running into a dead-end tunnel, whimpering and crying and screaming all the way. He died like a dog, he died like a coward. The world is a safer place." With those words, Donald Trump informed the world that American forces had finally tracked down and eliminated Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the Isil leader. That the world is a safer place without this mass murderer, who did so much to drag the Middle East back to the Stone Age, is beyond doubt. But after that, and as with everything involving the current president, the doubts are many. Even those who welcomed al-Baghdadi's death will have winced at the degree of Trump's triumphalism - not out of any spurious notions of concern for anyone else who might have been killed during the operation, but at the unwelcome sight of yet another American leader proclaiming the death of one individual to be the successful conclusion of the job. It's not and it never will be. As successive presidents have learned to their cost, killing the leader of an enemy regime, whether it be an actual government, as in Iraq and Libya, or leaders of terrorist organisations or illusory 'caliphates', as in the case of Osama bin Laden and al-Baghdadi, rarely changes things for the better. The law of unintended consequences tends to result in a situation which is even more unstable than it was prior to the operation. As is now being stated in some American intelligence circles, Trump's line that it "was like you were watching a movie" as he observed al-Baghdadi running down a dead-end tunnel "in utter fear, total panic and dread" should be taken with a large pinch of salt. After all, the live feed of the operation was an aerial shot above the compound, with no audio, and there is simply no way he could have seen events unfold in such detail. This has been shrugged off as 'dramatic licence' by some of his supporters as he basks in the reflected glory of a dead terrorist on his watch. But while the sceptics have poured doubt over the claims that it was even al-Baghdadi in the first place, in many ways that's irrelevant. Trump, like many of his predecessors, knew he needed a scalp to deflect unwelcome domestic attention. Lo and behold, a scalp is what he got and the increasingly negative news-cycle, which has been slowly tightening its grip around his neck for the last few weeks, has now been relaxed, if only briefly and ever so slightly. A CNN poll released last week saw an astonishing - and record breaking - 51pc of voters call for his impeachment, but his opponents don't, as yet, have the numbers to launch a formal heave against him. Presidential impeachment requires a two-thirds majority in the Republican-controlled Senate and would require many of those Republicans to publicly turn against Trump, and then face the wrath of Trump supporters at the next election. But while that Republican majority was seen as his bulletproof jacket until recently, he has endured such a bad few weeks that what was once unthinkable is now increasingly possible. But worse than his domestic blunders - far worse, in fact - has been his unilateral and unexpected withdrawal from the Middle East and, most importantly, his shameful treatment of the Kurds. Since the collapse of the Ottoman empire after World War I, the Americans have betrayed the Kurds on numerous occasions, so Trump isn't the first  president to be guilty of such an act of treachery. But this one, with the possible exception of George Bush encouraging the Kurds to rise against Saddam and then allowing them to be slaughtered in 1991, is by far the worst.  Turkish despot Erdogan has promised to 'crush the heads' of the Kurds and one veteran Middle Eastern observer I spoke to last week put it starkly: "Trump just rang the dinner bell for genocide. Given half the chance, the Turks will do to the Kurds what they did to the Armenians."  That is a horrifying prediction, but not a fanciful one.  Trump's decision was baffling, as so many of his decisions are. But the declaration that he was going to let the Turks and Kurds 'fight it out like kids in a sandpit' didn't merely exhibit an ignorance of Middle Eastern affairs, it displayed an open contempt for the people who, only last year, he was hailing as 'important allies' and 'very great people'. Similarly, his subsequent backtrack on his estimation of the Kurds, and his assertion that 'they are no angels', was not only a monstrous insult to the very people who shed the most blood to defeat Isil, but it again showed that he tends to view the world in an unbelievably simplistic and binary fashion. That decision was, quite simply, the worst thing he has done in office and it stands out as one of the most egregious acts of strategic stupidity and moral bankruptcy of any American leader in the last few decades. And, as even supporters of America will admit, that's a long list. But it's also a decision which will have a far greater impact on us here in Europe than it will in America.  We only need to remember that when America wrecked Libya it turned it into a departure lounge for migrants from all over the Middle East and Africa to reach European shores. What's even more infuriating is that Gaddafi even predicted that precise outcome. Now we have a situation where  thousands of Isil fighters escaped custody when their Kurdish guards were redeployed to counter the advancing Turkish forces, and many of the Isil fighters have  disappeared into the wind. Expect many of them to end up on European soil and a return to the deadly terrorist attacks which took place across the continent in 2015-16 is now more likely than it was even a few weeks ago. Yet he still has a better chance of winning the next election than any of his Democrat rivals. There are several reasons for that, not least the Democrats' almost Corbyn-like ability to miss an open goal, and if they persist on focusing on grievance politics and bashing the rich, they will lose again. Joe Biden may be more electable than his rivals, but he has to clear his party nomination first and, as a rich, old white dude, that will be difficult. The fact that Hillary Clinton has refused to rule out another run says it all. Trump has spent his time in office lurching from one controversy to the next and managing to escape. Should he avoid impeachment, he will probably win for one simple reason - many Americans have more money in their pockets due to his tax reforms. Unfortunately, for the rest of the world, following his despicable betrayal of the Kurds and handing Isil a second chance, the rest of us will be left picking up the tab. Irish Independent 
