middle east
{ David Rennie in Washington 
    June 24 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/americas/time-for-arafat-to-go-says-bush-26045737.html }
PRESIDENT George Bush last night called on Palestinians to replace Yasser Arafat as their leader and to adopt "a  practising democracy" that could produce an independent state within three years. "Peace requires a new and different Palestinian leadership so that a Palestinian state can be born," he said in a long-awaited speech at the White House. He urged Palestinians to elect "leaders not compromised by terror". If the Palestinians were to fulfil their aspirations for a state alongside Israel, "reform must be more than cosmetic changes or a veiled attempt to preserve the status quo". Mr Bush set stiff conditions for a Palestinian state. Elections should be held by the end of the year for a legislature with normal authority and there must also be a constitution. "When the Palestinian people have new leaders, new institutions and new security arrangements with their neighbours, the United States of America will support the creation of a Palestinian state, whose borders and certain aspects of its sovereignty will be provisional until resolved as part of a final settlement in the Middle East." Senior officials in Washington said they foresaw the Palestinians reaching provisional statehood within 18 months and full statehood within three years. Mr Bush also demanded that Israel withdraw to positions it held on the West Bank two years ago and to stop building homes for Jews on the West Bank and in Gaza. Ultimately, he said, Israel should agree to pull right back to the lines it held before the 1967 Middle East war. The borders and certain aspects of the new Palestinian state and its sovereignty would be provisional until resolved as part of a final settlement between a reformed Palestinian leadership and Israel. Mr Bush said that America, the European Union, the World Bank and International Monetary Fund stood ready to help oversee reforms in Palestinian finances. "And the United States, along with our partners in the developed world, will increase our humanitarian assistance to relieve Palestinian suffering," he pledged. Israel said that it was pleased with the speech, Mr Bush's deepest plunge into Middle East politics yet. The speech reflected the growing pressure for America to step into the escalating conflict. With passions running so high, the best Mr Bush could hope for was, perhaps, to displease all sides equally. The president was originally expected to speak early last week, but postponed his remarks after two devastating bus bombings in Israel. He has come under fierce lobbying from all sides. A succession of Arab leaders has visited or telephoned him to call for a fixed timetable for recognising a full Palestinian state, arguing that anything less has no chance of ending the cycle of violence. Mr Bush has been warned by Arab allies that US interests are being endangered by the Middle Eastern conflict. Anti-American public opinion has reached fever pitch across the Muslim world, fuelled by Palestinian propaganda. Apart from America's need for Middle Eastern oil, Mr Bush will need the tacit support of moderate Arab nations, before any bid to unseat Saddam Hussein. ( Daily Telegraph, London) 
