middle east
{ D&#x00D3;NAL NOLAN 
    May 12 2011 01:12 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/emigrant-song-tells-racy-tale-of-life-in-dubai-27407060.html }
THE rise in the number of young Kerry people emigrating to the United Arab Emirates is reflected in the growing popularity of a bawdy 'come all ye song' that is currently finding great favour in Dubai. Paddy goes to Dubai — written and launced at the Middle East Gaelic Games tournament this week by singer/songwriter Declan O'Sullivan aka 'The Paddyman' — captures the typical journey of the sandbound Irish. Declan, whose father comes from Kenmare, told The Kerryman that the song is a big hit among the Irish community in the Emirate, particularly with the scores of young Kerry people now arriving there. The song tells of a young Irish man is taking off to Dubai for a teaching post, cheap petrol, comely maidens and most importantly, cheap booze. It's not the usual portrait of Arabia, but it obviously resonates with the ex-pats and other nationalities are now coming around to the song and the the Irish ballad style in general. "Other people in the pub don't know what to make of it at first but before long they are the ones asking for those songs. There is one crowd of Palestinians who now come to the local pub just to request the Dubliners song 'Seven Drunken Nights' for example," he said. A keen footballer like his Dromid namesake, Declan played played in last weekend's Middle East GAA League Games. Because of the increasing number of emigrants, the county was able to field the first every all-Kerry team in the competition. That -Kerry team took on the rest of Ireland and the Middle East, including Dubai A, Dubai B, Abu Dhabi, Sharjah, Oman, Qatar, Bahrain and Saudi. The team of Cathal O'Mahony, Sean O'Shea, Jimmy Foley, John Dorgan, Conor Lynch, Patrick Dowling, Mike Gorman, John Michael O'Sullivan and Paul Kellehe rlost by a point to Dubai A in extra time the Emirates lost by a point in the final, But with more and more young Kerry people heading for the Middle East in search of work, they expect to do better next year. "There certainly are more Kerry men coming to Dubai these days," Declan told The Kerryman. "My own cousin, John Michael O'Sullivan from Kenmare came out over a year ago and was one of many." 
