middle east
{ David Quinn 
    December 26 2015 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/david-quinn/why-the-feast-of-stephen-the-first-christian-martyr-is-so-apt-this-year-34314774.html }
Today is St Stephen's Day, but I wonder how many people know anything about St Stephen, despite the  fact that he has a day named after him?  St Stephen is mentioned in the Acts of the Apostles. Like all the early Christians, he was a Jewish convert. His skill at preaching quickly drew him to the attention of the religious authorities in Jerusalem. He was tried for blasphemy and stoned to death, making him the first Christian martyr. Since then, the number of Christians killed for their faith has soared into the millions. Sometimes they have been persecuted by other religions (and have persecuted those other religions in their turn). Ancient Rome persecuted them because they would not recognise the Roman Emperor as a god and because they often made a convenient scapegoat when things were not going the empire's way. The 20th century was the worst in all history in terms of the numbers of Christians killed for their faith, usually by militantly atheistic regimes like those in the Soviet Union or China. Today, the very worst country in terms of its suppression and persecution of religion is North Korea, which, like the old Soviet Union, is officially atheistic. Shackles are also placed on religious freedom in other communist countries like China and Vietnam, and sometimes religious believers are imprisoned, beaten up and even killed.  But today most of the worst attacks on Christians, and on members of other religious minorities as well, are taking place in Muslim countries, or areas with majority Muslim populations like northern Nigeria. Last week the Archbishop of Westminster, Cardinal Vincent Nichols, organised a meeting in London to draw attention to the persecution of Christians in the Middle East. Christian leaders from the region were present. The meeting was addressed by Prince Charles. Referring to 'Persecuted and Forgotten? A Report on Christians oppressed for their Faith 2013-15', by Aid to the Church in Need, he said: "The suffering [of Middle East Christians] is symptomatic of a very real crisis which threatens the very existence of Christians in the land of its birth."  By way of illustration, he added: "Christianity is on course to disappear from Iraq within five years, unless emergency help is provided on a greatly increased scale."  As we celebrate Christmas, it is sobering to think that last year, for the first time in 1,800 years, the birth of Christ could not be celebrated in Mosul, Iraq's second largest city. This is because in summer of last year, Isil swept into Mosul and ordered the Christians out of the city. They fled to the relatively safety of the Kurdish-controlled parts of Iraq or in some cases to Jordan. Irish Christians, and Christians in the West generally, are pitifully unaware of what is happening to their fellow believers in other parts of the world.  We celebrate Christmas because of events that took place in what was then Judea, what is now Israel and Palestine, 2,000 years ago. Christianity grew first in that region and spread from there. Christianity become the major religion in the Middle East and North Africa until the Arab/Muslim conquests starting in the 7th century. But through all the centuries since then, Christianity had managed to hang on as a minority religion in the Middle East. The Christians of the Middle East are of very ancient lineage. The Coptic Christians of Egypt are descended from the ancient Egyptians of pre-Arabic times. The Christians of Northern Iraq are Assyrians and again long predate the Arab conquest. So when the Christians were driven from Mosul last year, so were the last of the Assyrians who have been in the region for thousands of years. It is as if all Irish of Celtic descent were suddenly driven from this country. Is that an exaggeration? The Christians of Mosul would never have dreamt until a few years ago of the fate that has now befallen them. A hundred years ago, Christians made up about 14pc of the population of the Middle East. This is now put at 4pc. Part of this decline is due to lower birth rates and natural emigration, but a very big part of it, especially in the last 10 years, is because the persecution of Christians in the Middle East has hugely intensified as militant Islam has grown in strength. Last May, a Catholic Church delegation headed by Bishop John McAreavey appeared before the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Trade to speak about the persecution of Christians in the Middle East. There needs to be much more of this in the coming year if the topic is to get the attention it deserves, if not in the national media, then at least among Christians on the island. It might seem strange to have the feast day of the first Christian martyr right after Christmas Day, with one day marking a birth and the next marking a death. But the juxtaposition isn't strange at all because Christians began to be killed for their faith from the very beginning of Christianity and Jesus himself was killed because of what he believed. So celebrating the two on successive days is actually completely apt and it is particularly apt this year because we are becoming witness to the fact that, because of persecution, Christianity is in danger of dying out in the part of the world where Christianity originated and where the event that we celebrate each Christmas took place.  To mark Christmas Day and St Stephen's Day one after the other is not just an act of memory, it is also an entirely fitting act of solidarity with those Christians who suffer and die today in huge numbers because of what they believe. Irish Independent 
