middle east
{  
    July 02 2010 02:36 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/breaking-news/world-news/blair-meets-hague-over-middle-east-26663539.html }
Former prime minister Tony Blair has met Foreign Secretary William Hague to discuss the Middle East peace process. The pair, who frequently clashed at the Commons despatch box during Mr Hague's time as Tory leader, had a "very useful" meeting at the Foreign Office. The situation in Gaza dominated the hour-long discussion and Mr Hague paid tribute to the former prime minister's efforts to get the Israeli blockade of the territory lifted in his role as international Middle East peace envoy. The Foreign Secretary said it was "refreshing" to now be able to work with Mr Blair, the envoy for the "Quartet" powers - the EU, the UN, the US and Russia. Mr Hague said: "We have had a very useful meeting, primarily discussing the situation in Gaza that has been of huge concern to the wider world over the last few weeks." The Foreign Secretary welcomed Israel's recent concessions over the situation in Gaza adding: "I hope they will take further steps to ease the blockade of Gaza. The blockade of Gaza is unacceptable and unsustainable but some progress has now been made in making sure some goods can get in to Gaza and Tony Blair has been at the forefront of that work and is to be congratulated on what has been achieved so far." Mr Hague said there was an "urgency" about the need to secure progress on a two-state solution. Mr Blair said the pair had kept in close touch over developments in the region. He said: "We have a chance now to change policy in Gaza and open it up for the transfer of the goods and daily items that people need to make their lives better there. We also had a chance to talk about the wider peace process where we hope we can get direct negotiations going as soon as possible and where we continue with what's been a lot of progress on the West Bank - but we need to do still more." The two politicians were rivals during Mr Blair's premiership, with Mr Hague leading the Tories between 1997 and 2001. PA Media 
