middle east
{ Steven Anderson 
    August 06 2013 10:21 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/us-and-uk-governments-airlift-staff-out-of-yemen-as-al-qaida-threat-level-rises-29477256.html }
The US and UK governments have airlifted their staff out of Yemen amid fears of an imminent major terror attack. Officials said an intercepted conversation between the head of al-Qa'ida and his deputy in Yemen revealed plans to target Western authorities, and it has led to the US issuing a worldwide travel alert and closing down its embassies in the region. The British Foreign Office had previously said its diplomatic offices in the capital Sana’a would be closed until the end of the festival of Eid later this week, but it confirmed today it has now followed suit with the Americans and all employees have been “temporarily withdrawn to the UK”. The US has urged its citizens to evacuate Yemen “immediately”, and told anyone planning on travelling there to postpone the trip, in a global warning of terrorist activities and civil unrest. A senior defence official said up to 100 government employees were flown out in a C-17 military transport as dawn broke on Tuesday. They are believed to have sought refuge at Ramstein Air Base in Germany. The Department of State issued a statement which said it was “highly concerned about possible attacks on US citizens”, after officials said they had intercepted a conversation between the head of al-Qa'ida and his deputy in Yemen detailing plans of a major terror attack. 
Close
 <a href='http://cdn1.independent.ie/incoming/article29476050.ece/binary/Terror+embassy.jpg' target='_blank'>Click to see a bigger version  of the graphic</a> The credit “GRAPHIC NEWS” mu / That intelligence initially led to the closure of embassies across the whole of the Middle East, as well as a warning to all international travellers of a perceived “high security threat level”. The State department said that there are currently no plans for the US to pay for non-governmental evacuations, but it added that it would assist in getting citizens out of the country if there was no safe commercial alternative. Dozens of US military troops have stayed behind in Yemen, as they continue to provide security at the embassy and conduct training with the state army. Meanwhile Yemen security officials reported that a suspected US drone strike at 2am on Tuesday killed four alleged members of al-Qa’ida in a volatile eastern province of the country. They said it was the fourth drone strike in two weeks to hit a car carrying suspected terrorists, but couldn’t say whether  those attacks were linked to the current high security threat level. US fears were first sparked after a message between terrorist leader Ayman al-Zawahri, who took over from Osama bin Laden following his death, and Nasser al-Wahishi, the head of the network's Yemeni-based faction, known as al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula, was picked up several weeks ago. It had appeared to target Yemeni interests, a US intelligence official and Middle East diplomat told the Associated Press. However, the threat was later expanded to include American and other Western sites abroad, making it unclear as to whether it would be targeting a single embassy, a number of posts or another site. In response to what has been described as a level of terror threat not seen since before the 9/11 attacks, the US in turn shut 19 of its diplomatic posts, which will remain closed until next Saturday. The UK's embassy in Yemen will remain closed until the end of the Muslim festival Eid, though the Foreign Office would not confirm that the message from al-Zawahri was the cause of the closure. British nationals have been warned there is a “high threat” from terrorism in the Middle Eastern country. The FCO has been warned against all travel to Yemen, and those in the country have been advised to leave immediately, as it is “extremely unlikely” that their evacuation could be arranged if the security situation deteriorates. “There is a high threat from terrorism throughout Yemen”, the FCO said. “Terrorists continue to threaten further attacks. There is a very high threat of kidnap from armed tribes, criminals and terrorists.” American spies and intelligence analysts yesterday scoured email, phone calls and radio communications between al-Qa'ida operatives in Yemen and the organization's senior leaders to determine the timing and targets of the planned attack. The call from al-Zawahri, who took over for Bin Laden after US Navy SEALs killed the al-Qa'ida leader in May 2011, led the Obama administration to close diplomatic posts from Mauritania on Africa's west coast through the Middle East to Bangladesh, east of India, and as far south as Madagascar. The US did decide to reopen some posts on Monday, including well-defended embassies in Kabul, Afghanistan, and Baghdad. Authorities in Yemen, meanwhile, released the names of 25 wanted al-Qa'ida suspects and said those people had been planning terrorist attacks targeting “foreign offices and organizations and Yemeni installations” in the capital Sanaa and other cities across the country. The Yemeni government also went on high alert Monday, stepping up security at government facilities and checkpoints. Officials in the US wouldn't say which of its agencies intercepted the initial suspect communications, and said the decision to close the embassies was based on a broad swath of information. They said that while AQAP is in contact with al-Qa'ida leadership, it makes its own operational decisions. The surveillance is part of the continuing effort to track the spread of al-Qa'ida from its birthplace in Afghanistan and Pakistan to countries where governments and security forces are weaker and less welcoming to the US. AQAP has previously been blamed for the foiled Christmas Day 2009 effort to bomb an airliner over Detroit and the explosives-laden parcels intercepted the following year aboard cargo flights. White House spokesman Jay Carney wouldn't say whether the current threat extends to the United States or whether Americans should be fearful because of the alerts. “What we know is the threat emanates from, and may be focused on occurring in, the Arabian Peninsula,” Carney said. “It could potentially be beyond that, or elsewhere. We cannot be more specific.” Independent News Service 
