middle east
{ Miral Fahmy 
    July 27 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/al-qaida-vows-to-avenge-israeli-assault-26376635.html }
FEARS of an escalation in the the Middle East crisis emerged last night after al-Qa'ida vowed to avenge Israel's attacks on Lebanon and Gaza. The terror group's deputy leader Ayman al-Zawahri said it would not stand by and watch Israel bombard Lebanon and the Palestinians. Al-Zawahri, in a tape aired by Al Jazeera television, did not say how al-Qa'ida would respond but he linked the fighting in the Middle East to conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq. FEARS of an escalation in the the Middle East crisis emerged last night after al-Qa'ida vowed to avenge Israel's attacks on Lebanon and Gaza. The terror group's deputy leader Ayman al-Zawahri said it would not stand by and watch Israel bombard Lebanon and the Palestinians. Al-Zawahri, in a tape aired by Al Jazeera television, did not say how al-Qa'ida would respond but he linked the fighting in the Middle East to conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq, countries where the militant group is battling Western forces. "How can we remain silent while watching bombs raining on our people?" he asked. "Muslims everywhere, I call on you to fight and become martyrs in the war against the Zionists and the Crusaders." His statement was the first comment by al-Qa'ida against Israel's war on Lebanon, which was sparked by the capture of two Israeli soldiers by Shi'ite Muslim guerrilla group Hizbollah. Israel is also waging an offensive in Gaza to free another soldier. "There are 10,000 prisoners of war in Israel's jails that nobody bothers about, but when it came to three Israeli soldiers, the whole world was turned upside down," he said. The new threat emerged as Israel defied international clamour for a ceasefire, declaring it would press ahead with its war and called up at least 15,000 more reservists. "It was decided to continue the offensive with the same strategy, using pinpointed ground incursions and airstrikes," a source said after a meeting of Ehud Olmert's security cabinet. "At the moment the army is not bound by time. It can act as long as needed," the source added. Haim Ramon, the Justice Minister, said the world had given Israel a green light to continue its drive to crush Hizbollah because a meeting of 15 foreign ministers in Rome on Wednesday had failed to demand an immediate ceasefire. German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier called that a "gross misunderstanding." Lebanon claimed last night that its hospitals had received 401 bodies of people killed by Israeli strikes, with as many as 200 still buried under rubble. Israel has had 19 civilians killed, with hundreds more injured by Hizbollah rockets. 
