middle east
{ Robert Tait in Qalandiya Refugee Camp,  West Bank 
    August 27 2013 03:14 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/middle-east/west-bank-killings-derail-peace-talks-in-the-middle-east-29529758.html }
THE newly revived Middle East peace process was in disarray yesterday after fresh violence in the West Bank left three Palestinians dead and at least 15 injured. The Palestinian leadership called off the latest negotiations in protest after Israeli forces opened fire in response to being pelted with rocks and Molotov cocktails in Qalandiya refugee camp, between Jerusalem and Ramallah, the West Bank's de facto capital, where they had gone to arrest a "terrorist suspect". The shootings provoked anger in the camp, where the three dead men were hailed as martyrs as their bodies were carried through the streets wrapped in the Palestinian flag in a mass funeral procession. A Palestinian official said two meetings with Israeli negotiators planned for yesterday had been cancelled. "It's not in our interests not to negotiate but our people are being killed," the official said. "There have been almost 4,000 Israeli military raids against Palestinians this year but none this violent." Israeli border police entered the crowded camp shortly before dawn yesterday and tried to arrest Yousef Abdul Rahim Khattib (25), an activist in the Palestinian Fatah group whom locals said had previously spent nine years in prison and is suspected by Israel of organising stone-throwing attacks on their forces. FORCED Mr Khattib escaped but was finally caught in a storeroom after officers forced entry to one of the buildings. The noise and disturbance brought large numbers of people from their homes, many of whom climbed to the roofs of low-rise buildings and began hurling missiles, witnesses said. "The Israeli forces panicked," a witness said. "One of their jeeps broke down and another was almost burned. One group of soldiers got trapped. At one point, they thought they had lost a soldier and started breaking into houses looking for him." Two of the dead men, Younis Jemal Jahjour (25), a correspondence student at Al-Quds University, and Jihad Aslan (19), a high school student, were on rooftops when they were shot, witnesses said. Ramadan Aslan (42), Jihad's cousin, said he had been throwing stones at Israeli forces. "He was on the rooftop of the butcher's shop and I saw a soldier opening the door of his jeep and opening fire at a group of stone throwers," Mr Aslan said. "(Jihad) was hit by one bullet in his hand and two in his chest." The third fatality, Rabeen Abed Fares (35), a father of five, was said to have been shot after being caught between Israeli forces and two groups of stone-throwers on his way to work. (© Daily Telegraph, London) Irish Independent 
