middle east
{  
    September 01 2013 03:02 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/pat-lets-his-art-do-the-talking-on-the-middle-east-banking-crisis-and-more-29542445.html }
ARTIST Pat Long, above, belongs to that tradition of artists who prefer to let their art do the talking. His new show (a two-hander with photographer Andy O'Toole) at the Inspire Gallery in Dublin is all about collage. "They're photomontages, made by hand using images cut from newspapers and magazines," says Pat. While they deal with controversial subjects – Middle East politics, totalitarian regimes, 9/11, Orange parades, the banking crisis – and exist in the expressionist tradition, the artist refuses to be drawn on the images. "I find that artists who make lengthy statements to back up their work invariably produce poor-quality work," he says with a  grin. The exhibition of incredibly detailed collages runs at the Inspire Gallery on Gardiner Street, Dublin, until  September 14. HUNDREDS LIMBER UP FOR CHARITY RUN HUNDREDS of runners are expected to limber up at the Phoenix Park for a special charity run to mark World Suicide Prevention Week on Saturday, September 14. Athletes and their families will have the choice or running or walking at the event, which is in aid of the national suicide prevention and bereavement charity Console. The chip-timed event begins from Chesterfield Avenue at 10am. Registration costs €20 and under-16s can take part for free. Registration details for both the run and the walk, which starts at the same time, can be found at www.console.ie. WAITING FOR 'WAITING FOR GODOT'  THE cast of the new production of Samuel Beckett's Waiting for Godot will meet for their first day of rehearsals tomorrow. The production – by Gare St Lazare Players Ireland and the Dublin Theatre Festival – will open in the Gaiety Theatre on October 3. Renowned Dublin-born actor Gavan O'Herlihy will return to Ireland to take on the role of Pozzo. Conor Lovett, considered by many to be the definitive Beckett performer, will play the role of Vladimir. It will be his third time playing the role and his 25th Beckett production. The production will be directed by Judy Hegarty Lovett. SPEAKERS SIGN UP TO LAUD 'LIBERATOR'  A HOST of prestigious speakers have been confirmed to discuss the life and times of the 'Great Liberator' at the Daniel O'Connell Summer School 2013. The school, which will be held at Derrynane House and Cahersiveen Public Library on September 6-7, will be opened by Arts Minister Jimmy Deenihan, and topics discussed will include O'Connell's public career and Catholic emancipation. Speakers will include former Justice Minister Michael McDowell, Mr Justice Adrian Hardiman, UCD Professor Maurice Bric, RTE's Joe Little and Professor Patrick Geoghegan. FESTIVAL AWARD NOMINATIONS OPEN NOMINATIONS for the Wexford Festival Opera/Zurich  Volunteers Award for Outstanding Leadership and  Development are now open. The award, now in its third year, seeks to recognise the "extraordinary contributions" of the 300 volunteers who give their time to the festival every year. Nominations for the award will close on October 20. Sunday Independent 
