middle east
{  
    August 11 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/books/in-search-of-the-real-lawrence-29489460.html }
'Lawrence of Arabia is dead," declared a Pathe newsreel in May 1935. "Lung trouble from a motorcycle accident which rendered him unconscious for days has killed the mystery man of the 20th Century." TE Lawrence was the most unlikely of military heroes. A far cry from the tall and handsome Peter O'Toole, who portrayed him in the 1962 biopic, the real Lawrence was small and not particularly good-looking; a Stanley Laurel look-a-like with similarly slender shoulders. He was shy, noted for his sloppy dress and his respect for authority was minimal. Yet his part in the First World War and the consequent history of the Middle East made him a hero and legend in his own time. Stories of his swashbuckling antics are abundant. During the First World War, British forces, fighting against a German and Ottoman Turk alliance, encouraged a loose confederation of Arab tribes to take up arms against their overlords of 400 years, the Ottoman Turks. The British armed and supplied the tribes and on occasion would join them in battle. In July 1917, this uneasy alliance attacked the Ottoman stronghold of Aqaba in Jordan. The British believed themselves to be under attack by their allies and were about to retaliate. Just as this simmering tension between the allies reached boiling point, a figure dressed in white robes was seen on the horizon. He raised his hand and disaster was averted. Aqaba was attacked by the allied Arab tribes and the British jointly, and taken. The debate as to whether Lawrence cultivated this gallant and bold image that would soon be his or modestly tried to hide from it still rages among historians and admirers. "I'm very weary of being stared at, discussed and praised," he wrote in a letter to a friend years after the war. "What can one do to be forgotten?" For all that, however, he admits in his book recalling the conflict, The Seven Pillars of Wisdom (1926), that "there was a craving to be famous and [yet] a horror of being known to like being known". "He is one of these characters that sort of says 'oh stop, stop don't photograph me'," says Dr David Murphy, lecturer in Military History at NUI Maynooth. "An officer who actually served with him in Arabia said that he had pushed himself forward as this heroic figure, but he was afraid that it would be found out to be a lie. Then in later years he became a bit disgusted with himself. I think because there were a couple of occasions during the Arab revolt when his guys went off the rails. On one occasion, his soldiers actually killed the passengers on a hospital train. "I think that in dealing with certain situations you're looking at realpolitik," continues Dr Murphy. "He'd just do what needed to be done and if that meant shooting 20 prisoners, he'd do it. I think when you look at his writings from the 1920s, incidents like that really come home to roost and mess with his head. When he has to sit at home in his drawing room and think about what he's done." Much of Lawrence's apparent modesty has its roots in his strict Anglican upbringing. Thomas Edward Lawrence was born on August 16, 1888 to an Anglo-Irish landowner, Sir Thomas Chapman, and a Scottish governess, Sarah Junner. Chapman, who owned Killua Castle in Westmeath, was married when he embarked on an affair with Junner shortly after she arrived to teach his children. The affair had been going on for some time when Junner fell pregnant and was forced to move to Dublin. There she gave birth to Lawrence's brother, Montagu, in 1885. When the scandal was discovered Chapman left his wife and moved to Britain. TE, the second of five boys, was born in North Wales, but the family soon settled in Oxford under the adopted name of Lawrence. Although away from his estate in Ireland, Chapman was still wealthy. Having signed over the deeds of his Westmeath estate to his brother, he could count on an annual subvention of several thousand pounds. This allowed the family to live a good life and by all accounts Lawrence's childhood was a happy one. Dr Murphy, whose biography Lawrence of Arabia was published in 2011, says that his father had a major impact on Lawrence. "He gets him interested in lots of different things," he says. "The father's interested in cycling and photography and travelling around France looking at castles; indeed he takes Lawrence on two trips. All of these things very much influence Lawrence. "In another respect, however, his later death had a major impact on Lawrence. Lawrence always knew there was something not quite right about the relationship between his parents. When his father died in 1919, a letter emerged explaining who he really was and where he was from. That was a major crisis for Lawrence. He changes his name from Lawrence to Ross to Shaw; he has a major identity crisis. He becomes fascinated with Ireland and Irish writers. He becomes best friends with Shaw, goes to Irish plays and there's one letter in which he talks about buying a few acres at home; home being Westmeath." While his father may have inspired his dreams, it was his mother who instilled in him the Anglican values centred on strictness and education. At school, Ned, as he was known, showed a talent for Biblical history and medieval architecture. He was popular but thought to be a little different. In a 1987 BBC documentary, a former schoolmate, EF Hall, recalled how Lawrence fasted and went without sleep for 45 hours in order to see how long he could last. Resilience was to be a chief feature of his life. In 1909, Lawrence visited the Middle East for the first time. Alone, he covered over 1,000 miles on foot through Syria and Palestine. He visited ruined Crusader castles, sketching and taking photos of many. From his notes he would later write his thesis on the influence of the crusades on European military architecture. The thesis was ground-breaking, in as much as it taught its readers that influence could go both ways. The thesis earned Lawrence a first class honours degree but more importantly, perhaps, it demonstrated an acute perception. This would later stand him in good stead. On graduating from Oxford in 1910, Lawrence joined an archaeological expedition with the British Museum to the 4,000-year-old city at Karkemish in Syria. At the time Syria was occupied by the Ottomans who, with their German allies, were building the Berlin to Baghdad railway close to the site. Years later rumours circulated that Lawrence had been sent there to spy on developments. These rumours were unfounded. However in 1914, just before hostilities across Europe and the Middle East broke out, Lawrence helped with a military map-making mission which resulted in his gaining intimate knowledge of the land through which he would later lead his Arab troops. It was during this time that Lawrence met Selim Ahmed, a then 12-year-old who was working on the dig as a water boy. Ahmed became Lawrence's protégé. He taught the young Syrian photography and English, while in return Ahmed taught him Arabic. Much has been made of their relationship. The Seven Pillars of Wisdom is dedicated to an SA who some believe to be the boy, though many believe that it could be a country or any number of things. It reads: "I loved you, so I drew these tides of men into my hands and wrote my will across the sky in stars. To earn you Freedom, the seven-pillared worthy house, that your eyes might be shining for me, when we came." Salim Ahmed died of typhus in 1918. Lawrence's road to fame started almost accidentally. When war broke out, he was sent to Cairo as an intelligence officer. Here he interviewed and cajoled information from captured Arabs who had fought for the Ottomans. From Cairo Lawrence was able to persuade his superiors that supporting an Arab uprising would help the British cause. They were eventually persuaded to send Lawrence as a liaison to the Arab tribes. His knowledge of and respect for their culture and ways earned him their trust. "Learn all you can," he wrote in a magazine piece entitled The Twenty Seven Articles in 1917. "Get to know their families, clans and tribes, friends and enemies, wells, hills and roads. Do all this by listening and by indirect inquiry. Do not ask questions. Get to speak their dialect of Arabic, not yours. Until you can understand their illusions, avoid getting deep into conversation or you will drop bricks." Lawrence was advised by Arab leaders to don the traditional white robes of the desert and in so doing earned kudos among the troops. It also aided his later mystique. Having persuaded the British that guerrilla warfare was best, Lawrence aimed to tie up Ottoman units in isolated towns and bomb the long and exposed railways that ran through the heart of the country. "Most wars were wars of contact," he once wrote of the tactic. "Ours should be a war of detachment. We would contain the enemy through the silent threat of a vast unknown desert." Gradually Lawrence became more than just a liaison. Soon he would lead attacks. His charisma and legend was such that the Ottomans put a substantial bounty on his head. Admiration of him among his men was such that he was never handed over. Britain and France had made the tribes believe that their mutual fight would mean their independence, but back in Europe, they plotted to carve up the territory between themselves. When Lawrence eventually got wind of this, he was distraught. Yet he fought on, believing that it was too late to stop. "We're calling them to fight for us on a lie," he wrote. "And I can't stand it." Eventually, after years of fighting, Lawrence arrived in Damascus, the city he believed should be the capital of an Arab nation. Although he immediately helped to install his constant ally and friend King Faisal as a provisional ruler, his dream of Arab independence was scuppered by an invading French army in 1920. On his return to Britain, Lawrence was offered a research fellowship at All Souls in Oxford. Shortly thereafter, American journalist Lowell Thomas, who had spent some time filming and taking photographs of Lawrence in 1918, opened an exhibition and lecture series entitled With Lowell in Palestine. When it soon became apparent that the big draw was Lawrence dressed in Arab garb, Lowell persuaded his star to pose for more photos in London. He rebranded the show With Lowell in Palestine and Lawrence in Arabia. It was a huge success and turned Lawrence into a household name. For Lawrence this new-found fame offered him the chance to champion the cause of Arabian independence. His pleas fell on deaf ears and at the Paris Peace Conference in 1919 the Arabic peninsula was carved up as planned during the war. By now Lowell's exhibition was touring the country and the romantic image of Lawrence had taken hold. Subsequent publications such as his own 'Seven Pillars' seemed to do little to dispel it, though he would have argued otherwise. "In many ways he's very fortunate because he writes himself into history," says Dr Murphy. "He is the main source for this campaign, so obviously he gives himself a starring role and gradually emerges as the sort of uncrowned king of Arabia. Historically, that's not necessarily true. He is one of many players in the story but his great advantage is that he gets to write the record at the end of the war." Lawrence spent the following years in various parts of the army under the aforementioned adopted surnames of first, Ross and then Shaw. After a two-year stint with the Royal Air Force in India, he returned home in 1928 due to rumoured espionage. He would see out the remaining years of his military career in Yorkshire. Two months after his retirement from the RAF, he was travelling on a country road on one of his beloved Brough Superior motorbikes. According to reports, a dip in the road obstructed his view of two boys on their bicycles. When he came upon them, he swerved and lost control. He was thrown from his saddle and knocked unconscious. He died six days later. It was apt that even his final act had been heroic. Sunday Independent 
