middle east
{  
    February 09 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/europe/magazines-publication-of-cartoons-condemned-by-chirac-26398628.html }
Anne Penketh in Paris FRENCH President Jacques Chirac condemned the "overt provocation" of Muslims after a satirical weekly yesterday published caricatures of the Prophet Mohammed. Speaking at the weekly cabinet meeting, President Chirac said that "anything which hurts other people's convictions, particularly religious convictions, must be avoided. Freedom of expression should be exercised in a spirit of responsibility. I condemn any overt provocation that could dangerously fuel passions." Meanwhile, four people attempting to storm a US military base were killed by Afghan police as clashes spread in Afghanistan following last week's publication by European newspapers of cartoons depicting the Prophet Mohammed. Smashed The American Secretary of State accused Syria and Iran of stoking the protests that have lit up the Middle East and beyond. In the West Bank town of Hebron, international observers fled their offices as Palestinian demonstrators smashed windows and threw stones at their headquarters. The French weekly Charlie-Hebdo published all 12 cartoons depicting the Prophet, which were originally published in Denmark's Jyllands-Posten newspaper, as well as a cartoon of its own on the front page. The newspaper's circulation went up from 100,000 to 160,000. A total 320,000 copies of the edition were printed. Charlie-Hebdo editor Philippe Val justified the decision, saying: "It is unacceptable that religious groups are setting down the rules for the rights of the press and freedom of expression. It is not up to religious groups to decide what to publish or not." The paper went ahead with publication after a court over-ruled objections from Muslim groups on technical grounds. Several French papers have published the cartoons. In Washington, President Bush called on governments around the world to put an end to the violence. But his Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice, went further. "Iran and Syria have gone out of their way to inflame sentiments and to use this to their own purposes and the world ought to call them on it," she said. Stones Danish embassies around the world have been the target of protests, including in Damascus, where demonstrators set fire to the country's embassy. As the protests broadened, the British embassy in Tehran was yesterday pelted with stones. Iran's best-selling newspaper, Hamshahri, on Tuesday launched a competition calling for cartoons about the Holocaust. Flemming Rose, the culture editor of Jyllands-Posten, which first published the Muhammad drawings, said of the Iranian cartoons: "We would consider publishing them, but we will not make a decision before we have seen the cartoons." It has emerged that the former editor of the Danish paper's Sunday edition, Jens Kaiser, turned down five small cartoons of Jesus' resurrection three years ago. "I failed to see [their] Meanwhile, Denmark's government, accusing some local imams of whipping up anti-Danish anger in the Middle East over the cartoons said yesterday it would exclude them from talks on ethnic minority integration. Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen told parliament that a tour of the Middle East by a group of Danish imams in December and January, when the cartoon row resurfaced violently, had ratcheted up the Muslim protests. "Some people in this country have poured fuel on the fire by spreading disinformation in the wake of that trip to the Middle East," he said. "Some extreme groups have been saying one thing abroad and something else here. Of course, we condemn this," the prime minister said. (© Independent News Service) 
