middle east
{  
    November 12 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/lifestyle/dundalk-upbringing-keystone-to-outlook-of-prof-halliday-26915091.html }
“Dundalk is a town with a strong sense of its local, County Louth and Irish identity. But it is also, and has long been, a town affected for better and worse by broader trends in international politics and economics,” says Professor Fred Halliday. A Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics, Fred Halliday’s observations are not those of an outsider, but borne out of his own personal memories of the town which he grew up in, and where his family had established one of the most successful footwear manufacturers, Hallidays. A Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics, Fred Halliday’s observations are not those of an outsider, but borne out of his own personal memories of the town which he grew up in, and where his family had established one of the most successful footwear manufacturers, Hallidays. Currently on sabbatical in Barcelona, where he is writing a book on the Middle East, Fred may have at this stage spent more of his life living away from Ireland, but he admits to having “ the fondest and most vivid of memories” of his childhood and teenage years in Dundalk. One of three sons of Arthur and Rita Halliday, his father moved the family shoe business from Leeds to Dundalk in 1930, and Fred was brought up at Red Barns House, Point Road. “As a child growing up on the Point Road, one of my earliest memories is of the ships coming up the river, with the flags of foreign states on their masts,” he recalls. “The town’s history, when I grew up there was repeatedly marked by events which linked it to the wider world. In particular I remember in 1941 that the Dundalk Fire Brigade, of which my father was a member, went north to Belfast, in contravention of its Irish neutrality, after a particularly heavy German raid. “In 1957, Co. Louth was affected by one of the most baneful of all transnational processes, ecological pollution following an accident at the nuclear waste processing plant across the sea at Windscale, now Sellafield, a threat that has not gone away.” Fred Halliday attended the Marist, but at sixteen years old was sent to a boarding school at Ampleforth College in England. Studying Politics, Philosophy and Economics at Oxford and later achieving an MSc at the School of Oriental and African Studies, London, he has a PhD at the London School of Economics (LSE) From 1974 to 1982, he was a Fellow of the Transnational Institute, Amsterdam and Washington, and has since 1983, been teaching at the International Relations Department at LSE. A former Chairman of the Research Committee of the Royal Institute of International Affairs, he is also a member of the Advisory Council of the Foreign Policy Centre and a Fellow of the British Academy. Despite the list of accolades, Fred Halliday is a remarkably unpretentious man who has always spoken of his pride at being from the border region, which he explains left him with a unique understanding of reconciliation. Proud too of the “Dundalk perspective” which has influenced so much of his work, he explains: “I have taught international relations, a subject that includes both analysis of how the world works and the moral issues involved. Yet my views on these topics have been shaped, in a way that I have found fruitful, by my own background in Ireland, and in the particular place where I grew up, Dundalk. The whole agenda of international relations is there: state formation, frontiers, revolutionary struggle, nationalism, industrial rise and decline, illegal transnational flows, environmental damage, and perhaps now a bit of international co-operation.” A keen linguist, Prof Halliday is a regular on BBC’s radio 4 when he has opportunity to converse in many languages including Farsi and Arabic. Having written extensively on the Middle East, his most recent books are ‘The International Relations of the Middle East’ and ‘100 Myths about the Middle East’ and all of his works have been translated into ten languages. “In some of the things I have written, I have made the point that while there are no direct lessons in the study of politics, the perspective of having grown up in Dundalk, and on reflecting on its place in the wider political and economic life of Ireland has always served for me as a touchstone.” Holding a particular interest in how international processes affect local economies and politics, he adds “No one familiar with the issues of employment in Dundalk can ignore than question. Speaking of my own family, I can say that for my father, who ran a factory in Dundalk from 1930 to 1960, the international was ever present, in the 1930s depression, the 1940s world war and embargoes which made it virtually impossible to get leather from Argentina and Uruguay to Dundalk, in the 1950s the gradual opening of Ireland to the EEC as it then was, and the outside world through Sean Lemass, who took particular interest in the industrial progress of Co. Louth.” He points out that on two occasions when distinguished visitors paid a visit to his workplace, the London School of Economics, he had particular pleasure in raising with them their own visits to Dundalk. “Former President, Mary Robinson spoke at the LSE about her visit to Dundalk Institute of Technology, and former US President Bill Clinton, whose speech I watched like many others on television against the backdrop of the Courthouse, could only say in response to my mentioning his visit “I love Dundalk!” I just thought ‘What is good enough for them should be good enough for the rest of us I suppose!’” 
