middle east
{ Freya Drohan 
    October 15 2014 02:31 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/style/fashion/style-talk/women-are-interested-in-mascara-and-the-middle-east-cosmopolitans-editor-defends-racy-emily-ratajkowski-cover-30666978.html }
We know ‘sex sells’ but Cosmopolitan editor Joanna Coles is kickstarting a new era for the glossy magazine, with a focus on politics, health and women’s rights. Under its Editor-in-Chief, Cosmopolitan magazine has turned a corner in the last two years. Joanna Coles, former editor of Marie Claire, gave the iconic magazine a makeover, the most radical since the era of editor Helen Gurley Brown. While Brown may have pioneered the emancipated and independent ‘Cosmo Woman’ during the 1960s, it is Coles who is reshaping what this millennial woman is talking about. In May, the magazine won a Personal Service Award from the National Magazine Association for its groundbreaking 12 page special on contraception and Sheryl Sandberg of Facebook has been enlisted as careers editor. Coles was interviewed by America’s National Public Radio (NPR) yesterday, and was asked by host Rachel Martin whether the latest cover which features actress Emily Ratajkowski in a revealing shirt undermines the career advice and new commitment to get involved in politics offered on the magazine’s pages. 
Close
 / During the interview, Martin had Coles read cover lines and challenged her to explain how the November cover girl’s provocative outfit reflected with advice on how to ask for a raise at work.  In retaliation, Coles stated:  “I don't think anyone would suggest that you negotiate for a raise with your shirt undone to your waist… I think that women's lives are multilayered. I have no problem understanding that women are interested in mascara and the Middle East. Men are allowed to talk about sports relentlessly and yet we still take them seriously. I don't understand why women can't talk about fashion, or sex, or love, or wanting more money and not be taken as seriously as men.” “We have a wonderful picture of Emily Ratajkowski, who is the mistress in Gone Girl, on the cover. And inside, we have six or seven pictures of her showing off her magnificently toned body. And I love the headline, which is ‘I feel lucky that I can wear what I want, sleep with who I want and dance how I want and still be a feminist,’” Coles added. Speaking about the “new Cosmo woman”, Coles concluded, “I think she is doing pretty well today...I think that young women today feel that so much more is possible for them than, certainly, 30 years ago when I was growing up. And I think they look around and, although there are still very few female leaders in American business and there's still not enough women in government, it does make a difference to see Sheryl Sandberg at Facebook or Marissa Mayer at Yahoo. It's really important that we have these role models so women feel, "I, too, can do this," if they want to. I'm not saying everybody has to run a boardroom, of course not. But if you want to run your own business, you should be able to. We want to give you the tools and the psychological kind of input to be able to do that.” This week, WWD confirmed that Joanna Coles and NBC script writer Leslye Headland are collaborating on a new television series which profiles a failed political blogger who lands a job as Cosmopolitan’s sex editor.  Online Editors 
