middle east
{  
    August 07 2012 11:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/enniscorthyguardian/lifestyle/worrying-times-ahead-in-middle-east-27258555.html }
THERE ARE worrying times ahead in the Middle East as Syria carries on tearing itself apart in what amounts to a bloody civil war between a regime desperate to cling on to power and a fractured and militarily hamstrung opposition battling to oust the Assad government. The fighting may be a long way from out shores, but the future shape and direction of Syria is something that affects us all, holding out the prospect of ethnicand religion-based massacres, of a new humanitarian crisis, of more instability in the Middle East and fears of what could happen to Syria's stockpiles of biological and chemical weapons. What happens in the country's second city of Aleppo will perhaps determine the direction of the war and will demonstrate whether the rebels can hold on to their hard-won gains in the face of the Assad government's firepower. More than in any other uprising since the Arab Spring began, Syria has become a proxy battlefield for rival powers, much more so than Libya was. Bashar al-assad is not isolated in the way that Gaddafi was - he has the support and backing, both politically and militarily - through arms shipments - of Iran and Russia. The West is not directly arming the rebels, but arms are being channeled through Turkey, from Qatar and Saudi Arabia. The rebels want more and better arms, but there is a reluctance to provide more sophisticated weapons, such as surface-to-air missiles, that could fall into the hands of Al- Qaeda and Hizbollah in neighbouring Lebanon. While the Syrian government has lost control of key areas of cities and towns, it has absolute control of its air space and is able to deploy its jets and helicoper gunships with impunity. Given this, the regime's overwhelming strength in terms of heavy weapons and manpower and it's difficult to see the rebels being in a position to seize power, unless the Assad govenment topples from within. Turkey may be tempted to create a no fly zone along its border with Syria that would provide a protected area for civilian refugees and the rebels with an area in which to regroup protected by an air umbrella as was the case in Iraqi Kurdistan. But this would need wide political and military backing from outside the region and this is highly unlikely given divisions within the U.N. Security Council. Syrian Foreign Ministerwalid al-moualem has vowed that the rebels in Aleppo would be defeated as would the "conspiracy" against the country. On a visit to Tehran to meet his counterpart, Ali Akbar Salehi, Moualem accused Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey of supporting a plot hatched by Israel to destroy Syria. Salehi said the idea that there would be an orderly transition of power if the Assad regime fell from power was "a dream ...an illusion". In reality, Israel could face an even bigger threat to its security should the Assad government go and a radical Islamic state replace it. There are worrying times ahead. 
