middle east
{  
    September 05 2014 08:25 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/letters-the-world-at-war-after-invasion-to-topple-saddam-hussein-30565898.html }
In 2003 and 2004 an estimated 30 million people around the world marched against the 2003 invasion of Iraq, with three million people marching in Rome; 750,000 in London and one million people in Dublin.  The invasion was intended to liberate the Iraqi people and also, we were told frequently, to get rid of weapons of mass destruction stockpiled in the country and to especially remove the country's tyrannical leader, Saddam Hussein. Chemical weapons were found, but hardly any or none of the more lethal weapons of mass destruction. Few could have predicted how worse it would get for the stability of the Middle East. Saddam was hanged, but it didn't lead to peace in the country as hoped. A new organisation, Isil, has this year taken over a third of Iraq and Syria as part of their plan to set up an Islamic caliphate state encompassing as much territory in the region as possible. They tolerate no differing views and their methods include beheading civilians and shooting dead 500 to 700 of Iraq's army captured in June, according to a Human Rights Watch report. The UN published a report on atrocities in Iraq this year. The beheading of two American journalists in the Middle East in the last eight days has US President Barack Obama talking tough, but whether he will follow through is uncertain. Civilised human beings can't understand how anyone could behead a person and video it for the internet - the stuff of nightmares. Isil were described in a newspaper editorial as fascists like the Nazis of the 1930s in Europe. This new group has gained a vast amount of territory in six months and the fear is they may completely take over Iraq and terrorise the population of 35 million. The government in Iraq is fragile and still in need of armed support from the West. Its brave people who serve in the government are putting their lives in danger all the time. A special mention too to our Irish UN peace-keepers, who last month rescued UN Filipino colleagues who were surrounded at their post because of the spreading Syrian civil war near the traditional UN neutral zone of the Golan Heights between Syria and Israel. It is a sad litany of violence in the Middle East. Mary Sullivan, College Road, Cork   What has gone wrong with our country? We are jailing mothers who decide what's best for their children. We are having our budgets being distributed to members of the German Parliament before our elected representatives see them -and this same country is only now deciding to pay compensation for the child victims of their darkest hour of history. We are members of a Union that operated a rendition programme in Poland. We have heroin washing all over our once-peaceful towns and villages. We have court cases costing vast amounts and we are seeing guilty verdicts in our criminal courts receiving the punishment of community services . We have spent millions setting up a company that is going to charge us for the water that falls out of the sky to flow through pipes that are already in the ground. We have a council of unelected people, namely the Economic Management Council, seemingly deciding our economic future. We have soldiers on the edge of what is beginning to look like hell on Earth "observing" a ceasefire. We have binmen that are beginning to look like they have been transported back to the Lockout era of our history. We have a national broadcaster that seems to have made some very strange editing decisions on what is news and what is not. We have unknown people running into pubs shooting firearms. We have a Government with the largest majority in the history of the State with a "new" billion euro. Sure it'll all be grand. Dermot Ryan, Athenry, Co Galway   Should non-GAA events ever be accorded precedence over Gaelic games at Croke Park? Tony Barnwell, Dublin 9 Falcao wages a sign of madness I read on the front page of your paper the following: "United land Falcao on €335,000 a week". Is there something not quite right about that or is it just me? Madness - pure madness. It really does take the good out of any sport. Not even our Jim McGuinness is worth that after last Sunday! On second thoughts... Ah! to hell with it, I must be getting old! Brian McDevitt, Glenties, Co Donegal Victoria White's article of the September 4 is predicated around the assertion that "nowhere in the Constitution is a parent's right to home-educate made subject to any "minimum standard'". This is patently false. Article 42.3.2 explicitly says "The State shall, however, as guardian of the common good, require in view of actual conditions that the children receive a certain minimum education, moral, intellectual and social." It is clear then that the right of parents to home-educate their children is not absolute. Rather, it is a competing right to be balanced against the right of the children to receive a certain minimum level of education. How else to ensure this balance is maintained than by some form of mandatory assessment? I fail to see any constitutional issue here. Jessica Copley, Knocklyon, Dublin 16   Albert Reynolds' demise reminds me of the time when Ireland was ruled from Longford. Albert was Taoiseach; Willie Mulvihill was Secretary General of the GAA; and Cahal Daly (not born in Longford, but he was there long enough for us to claim him) was head of the Catholic Church. More importantly, my mother used send scratch cards to Mr Reynolds with requests to fix the road to our house. I know he didn't take bribes, but her letters were always acknowledged and the road was always repaired. Tom Farrell, Swords, Co Dublin   Sadly - even with the rising barbarity of the nutters of the Islamic State terror group - so many of today's Western elites, assorted clever people, chaff head celeb-set types, "New Age Tories" and so many other types of the West's modern-day crusading cappuccino commandos derisively dismiss America's founding fathers' great American constitution as an "18th century experiment"! Perhaps such "educated, but unlearned" fools will soon come to realise that to protect the West's Judeo/Christian foundations it's not so much a matter of back to basics, but forward to fundamentals! Howard Hutchins, Victoria, Australia   With Mr Carter's commentary having placed our prostitution laws in the headlines, it should be recognised that our laws, as they stand, are ambiguous as to whom exactly they and their penalties apply, especially as regards who solicits who and what for. That's why the actions of both parties need to be absolutely criminalised, and in no uncertain terms, the same way as both dealers and buyers are prosecuted under our drug laws. Killian Foley-Walsh, Lourdes, France Irish Independent 
