middle east
{  
    September 10 2014 10:44 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/letters-fundamentalism-a-stain-on-tradition-of-tolerance-in-middle-east-30578690.html }
In his recently-published letter, Philip O'Neill was right that the banality of irrational news from the Middle East distracts us from the fact that Arab cities were once beacons of tolerance, science and enlightenment.  Most of the pillars of Western civilisation were built up in Muslim Spain, such as free trade, open borders, diplomacy, etiquette, alternative medicine, hospitals, fashion, techniques of academic research and anthropology, to mention just a few. It is true that the beheadings of innocent journalists, the desecration of Christian symbols and places of worship and asking Christians to leave the Iraqi city of Mosul within 24 hours were done under the rubric of religion. However, we must remember that such appalling acts are nothing but a blot on a tradition that prides itself on being a cultural and religious mosaic. The region has been a home for myriad faiths for thousands of years. There is no clash of civilisations or religions, as Muslims bear the brunt of oppression, injustices and atrocities. Also, those who heap blame on religions as the drivers of hatred and animosities need look no further than the UK, where many disparate faiths, ethnic groups and religions cohabit peacefully. Another example of ancient harmonious cohabitation could be found in Jordan, where the kingdom derives its name from the River Jordan: a site revered by the three Abrahamic religions as the river where Jesus Christ was baptised by John the Baptist and the river which the Israelites had to cross to reach the promised land. In our quest for civil rights and the sanctity of human life and dignity, we should always look for such shining beacons as oases of peace. Dr Munjed Farid Al Qutob, London NW2, UK   Badger cull based on old science There is going to be a badger cull. This will probably please many farmers who, for very good reasons, see the badger as a spreader of the dreaded TB to their cattle herds. This will not please environmentalists, who see the badger as an integral part of Ireland's ecosystem. But do we really need to cull the badgers? Do we really need to spend a fortune on an "eradication programme" that has proven itself to be anything but that which its proponents claim it is? When an animal tests positive for TB on a farm, it is sent to the meat factories for slaughter. After the beast has been killed, its lungs are subjected to a veterinary inspection for lesions on the lungs caused by the disease. In some cases, despite the positive on-farm test, the animal in question may not have any visible signs of the disease. The test is paid for by the farmers through veterinary fees paid by all who send livestock to be slaughtered. This scheme was established many, many moons ago, when food processing and milk production was carried out in a completely different manner and when there were very poor medicines for dealing with TB in the human population. It was also a time when all the beef eaten in Ireland was home-grown. Today, because the world is now a global market, the beef you eat may have been transported from many different countries in the world. Do these exporting countries test for TB to meet our high standards, which see badgers being killed ? The cull seems to be relying on old science. Well, I suppose at least the badgers won't form a group of protesters. Dermot Ryan, Athenry, Co Galway   Rebuke for Leo, none for James For more than three years James Reilly presided over fantasy budget proposals, medical cards being taken from sick children and controversy after controversy. All the while, Dr Reilly retained the full, unwavering support of Enda Kenny. Perhaps that was because Enda saw Dr Reilly as a close ally and supporter or perhaps because Dr Reilly was an unquestioning and eager participant as the Government annually slashed the public health budget and promoted the ideology of the privatisation of health. Whatever the reason, it's clear that the Taoiseach stood four-square behind Dr Reilly as he lurched from one scandal to the next. Contrast that with his response to Leo Varadkar's comments yesterday. Mr Varadkar spoke candidly about the current state of the public health system and about how unrealistic some of the Government's health policies actually were. Mr Kenny, however, apparently didn't take kindly to Mr Varadkar's refreshing honesty and instead publicly rebuked him in a manner that he never did with Dr Reilly. Simon O'Connor, Dublin 12   Hanafin - a woman scorned Mary Hanafin has done it again, and there really is nothing quite like a woman scorned. Micheal Martin still has a lot to learn. The Fianna Fail leadership's handling of Ms Hanafin's local candidacy has come back to bite him and the Fianna Fail party. Senior figures in the party seem to be terrified of anything that will remind voters of failings while in government. Ms Hanafin has tussled with the elephant in the room. This will resonate with voters, but rankle with Mr Martin. Mr Martin needs to bring Ms Hanafin back into the fold before she finds a way to really get stuck in. Killian Brennan, Malahide Road, Dublin 17   Bring back the gold standard For seven years, through letters to editors and politicians, I have endeavoured to raise the issue of the need for nations worldwide to return to the gold standard - to no avail. It is that time of the year for me to make another attempt. Here goes: Fiat money is eventually worth the paper that it is printed on. Within 25 years, the planet will recognise such a need when the world's major economies all collapse at the same time, and many of us will ask: "How could we have let this happen?" Sound familiar?! Vincent J Lavery, Dalkey, Co Dublin   The great USC giveaway Brendan Howlin thinks there is no room for a "giveaway budget". What about my Universal Social Charge, which is taken from me each month and given away? Darren Williams, Blackglen Road, Waterford   The whole truth You carried a piece stating that almost €7m had been spent on air travel for public service "high flyers" "whisked" around for the year 2013 (Irish Independent, September 9). Various statistics and expenditure breakdowns were quoted, with the observation that the €6.97m spent was a 13pc increase over 2012. All these figures are doubtless true. But one important element was missing from the article - for six months of 2013, Ireland held the EU Presidency. It's hardly surprising that this tenure would have incurred increased traffic to Brussels, the permanent hub of Europe. It's another example of nuanced journalism: print the truth, nothing but the truth. But don't print the whole truth if it doesn't fit the agenda. I have a bet with my bookmaker that this letter will not be published. I'd love to lose it! Larry Dunne, Rosslare Harbour, Co Wexford Irish Independent 
