middle east
{  
    March 31 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/sultans-of-spin-try-to-sell-peace-in-middle-east-26119104.html }
By CONOR CRUISE O'BRIEN    THE Middle East and Northern Ireland have one thing in common. As far as public international discussion of their ... THE Middle East and Northern Ireland have one thing in common. As far as public international discussion of their affairs is concerned, both are the domain of the spin-doctors. And, in general, public discussion of international affairs has long belonged in that domain. Where discussion of things like the state of the national economy is concerned, most people know where the shoe pinches and are not so likely to be fooled by the spin-doctors. But in international affairs, of which peoples' personal knowledge is likely to be limited, the spin-doctors are likely to have it all their own way. And in that domain the Americans are mostly in control of the spin. As they were this week over the Middle East. American officials, and other well-informed persons, are well aware that the only peace process in the Middle East which has been potentially meaningful is the pivotal process between Israel and Syria. They also know that that process has just undergone a spectacular breakdown. But that is not what American officials, from the President down, want to make the state of the process look like. Adverting publicly for the first time to the recent setback to the talks, President Clinton said on Tuesday that it is up to the Syrian leader, Hafiz Al-Assad to make the next move: ``The ball's in his court now and I'm going to look forward to hearing from him,'' said Mr Clinton at the White House on Tuesday. Of course the ball is not now in Syria's court. Syria has just played the ball to devastating effect, and the President has to be well aware of that. Formally, it was Lebanon, not Syria which played the ball, when it announced that it would not accept Israel's withdrawal from Lebanese territory unless Israel also accepted the return of all the Lebanese evacuated from Israeli-occupied territory over the last 50 years. There are reckoned to be over 350,000 of these, and no Israeli Government could conceivably attempt to accommodate such a large and inveterately hostile population. Formally this was a demand of the Lebanese Government, not of the Syrians, and Syria has had nothing to say about the matter. But in reality there is no independent Lebanese Government. Syria, with more than 300,000 heavily-armed troops in Lebanese territory, is in complete control of its puppet Government in Beirut. The hardline statement by that puppet Government was dictated word-for-word by Syria. And the immediate endorsement of the Lebanese demand by the Arab League was an achievement of Syrian diplomacy, with its ramifying influence including its multiple paramilitary influence throughout the Fertile Crescent. President Clinton and his advisers know all that as well as anyone else, but it does not suit them to advert to it. What has just happened is a brutal setback, delivered by Assad, to the whole American diplomatic effort aimed at securing a peace treaty between Israel and Syria. But President Clinton needs to conceal the extent of this setback from his own public. Hence the pretence that the ball is still in Assad's court, whereas the President has to know that the ball has been played, and that peace between Syria and Israel is now most unlikely to be achieved within the President's remaining period of tenure, or within Assad's lifetime. In this discouraging state of affairs, attention turned, as commentators noted, to the Palestine track. In reality as again the President has to know nothing of substance is likely to be achieved along that dismal track. Arafat's Palestine is a basket case, hopelessly corrupt and terminally discredited. It is also the stomping ground of a multiplicity of terrorist groups subsidised by Syria. But for all those reasons Arafat desperately needs to conciliate the United States. Then he is therefore likely to want to sign up to pretty well anything that the United States want him to sign up to. But he cannot really deliver on peace with Israel, because Syria and its proxies will not allow him to deliver on that, even if he sincerely wanted to. So in the case of Palestine, as in the case of Lebanon, it all comes back to Syria. Assad is making the point, with his customary efficiency and economy, that Israel cannot have a stable peace with its immediate neighbours unless it agrees to give back to Syria the whole of the Golan, free from Israeli settlers. Clinton knows very well that peace between Israel and Arafat's Palestine cannot amount to much, in practice, if it is not satisfactory to Syria. But Clinton also knows that something can be patched up to look like peace between Israel and Palestine which could lead to a new ceremony on the White House lawn to coincide with the end of his Presidency and set the seal upon that Presidency in the eyes of the American public. Or so he seems to hope. And the hope has a reasonable basis in experience. In foreign affairs and short of involvement by American ground forces Americans seem disposed to allow the President the benefit of the doubt. IF he seems to be trying, with pertinacity and apparent good will, Americans seem content to ascribe repeated failures and setbacks to the unreasonableness and all round orneriness to be expected from foreigners in general. A good example of the favourable allowances the President can expect from a great many American commentators for his foreign policy options is supplied by Maureen Dowd in a piece from Washington on Wednesday. Ms Dowd wrote: `People scorned Bill Clinton's morals. But they love his economy and the way he handles hard things like the Middle East, Ireland and guns.' Whatever about the economy and guns it is not evident to me that such hard things as the Middle East and Ireland have in any way benefited from the President's attentions. But I doubt whether he expects them actually to benefit. What matters is that he should get good marks for trying in the only place that is of prime concern to him, the United States itself. Addendum: I have just seen the following poster, newly affixed in Pasadena. It runs simply: ``McCain for President 2004.'' This is a fine piece of chutzpah and it might even come true. 
