middle east
{ Rupert Cornwell and Phil Reeves 
    November 20 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/powell-fails-to-deliver-middle-east-peace-hope-26068328.html }
IN WHAT was billed as a major speech on America's  Middle East policy in Kentucky yesterday, Secretary of  State Colin Powell risked disappointing both parties to the conflict, as he failed to unveil any sweeping new initiative to break the current bloody deadlock. However, the US is sending a senior Middle East negotiator back to the region in a new effort to secure a lasting ceasefire and restart peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. General Powell reiterated that the US was sticking with the so-called "Mitchell plan," drawn up by former Senate Majority leader George Mitchell which urges first a cooling-off period free of violence, then confidence-building measures and only after that a resumption of final settlement talks which foundered in summer 2000. To this end, Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs, William Burns, will return to the Middle East shortly to resume Washington's mediation efforts. For all its relative paucity of content, Gen Powell's speech has had an exceptionally long gestation. In the event, it was President Bush himself who set the ball rolling again 10 days ago, as he broke new ground in front of the UN General Assembly by speaking of Washington's vision of two states, Israel and Palestine, existing side by side. But despite that carefully weighed first use of the word 'Palestine,' Mr Bush has steadfastly refused to meet Yasser Arafat, with White House officials insisting the Palestinian leader was not doing enough to reduce terrorist violence. Israel's Prime Minister Ariel Sharon meanwhile cancelled a planned trip to the US this month for fear of being put under heavy diplomatic pressure to resume peace talks with the Palestinians, though he is now expected to come here in December. Yesterday, beyond familiar strictures to both sides, Gen Powell did not advance the process much further, other than to announce the return of Mr Burns to the region, and to confirm that retired Marine General Anthony Zinni, who used to command US forces in the Middle East, would also prolong his current mission to try and nudge the two sides closer together. Most Middle East hands however were expecting little more. "This is no time for an over-ambitious initiative," said Martin Indyk, a former US ambassador to Israel under President Clinton. "You can't jump from extreme violence in the last few months to start negotiating final status issues like the status of Jerusalem." Gen Powell added: "Occupation hurts Palestinians but it also affects Israel," referring to young Israelis serving on the front line of the conflict, inside their own country. Meanwhile, the EU angrily rejected Israeli claims that it was funding arms purchases by the Palestinian authority yesterday. As EU leaders continue their intensive diplomatic mission to bring peace to the Middle East, they were once again in conflict with Mr Sharon. He claimed on Sunday that the EU should not supply taxpayers money directly to the Palestinian authority but European Commission President Romano Prodi said any money is used to provide education and develop infrastructure. (Independent News Service) 
