middle east
{  
    April 11 2012 08:07 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/lifestyle/look-overseas-says-titanic-linen-supplier-26962470.html }
DUNDALK-BASED Lissadell Liddell Ireland, which provided the linens for the Titanic's ill-fated voyage in 1912, is benefiting from a 'snob appeal' in the Middle East, accelerating exports, its commercial director told Insider. Marc Wynne encouraged Irish businesses to look to overseas markets for sales to capitalise on the respect European brands have in places such as Dubai and Saudi Arabia. The luxury manufacturer and supplier of bath towels, robes and linen merged its two businesses, Lissadell Ireland and Liddell Ireland in November 2010 when they were acquired by Vision Support Services. This year, the company will once again supply linens for the Titanic as it makes its commemorative centenary voyage. 'Exports are driving the business at the moment. We have succeeded in attaining a lot of good five-star hotel business since the merger,' Wynne said. 'There is a great appetite for European, and particularly Irish, brands in the Middle East. There is what you might call a 'snob appeal'. Lissadell and Liddell have a history and a heritage that is well regarded in the Middle East. They recognise we produce a better product than is available in the local market. 'Everyone wants to do business with Irish companies. My message to businesses in Ireland is to get off the island and look to overseas for sales; companies in Dubai and Saudi Arabia respect and value European brands and traditions.' The company, which supplies products to The Dorchester and Mandarin Oriental Hotel in London and Four Seasons internationally, as well as Raffles in Singapore, one of the world's most famous hotels, has recently won a contract with Fairmont Hotels & Resorts. 'It's great boost for us in the Middle East and there will be more than 40 new hotels to be built in 2012-13. We get referrals from one hotel to another because of the good work and experience we provide,' Wynne added. This year's Titanic celebrations will provide Lissadell Liddell with another boost as it is making replica kits and linens, which will be available to licensed distributors. Wynne said: 'It's terrific and the celebrations will be greatly received this year in Belfast. We're delighted to be associated with the Titanic again.' Lissadell Liddell has a vast network of sales and service affiliates across the globe and is headquartered in Dundalk won Business Growth Award from Dundalk Chamber of Commerce at Louth Business Awards event. Speaking from the event on the night, Commercial Manager Sonya Byrne expressed delight at the company's achievement, saying: 'It was the first time in the company's history that we had ever won a Chamber of Commerce Award and all employees would be very proud of their achievement.' Marc Wynne of Lissadell Liddell Ireland. 
