middle east
{ Ellie Donnelly 
    May 29 2018 06:21 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/irish-company-focused-on-bad-cholesterol-treatment-signs-new-distribution-agreements-in-the-middle-east-36956490.html }
Irish-listed Amryt Pharma has signed a further four distribution agreements for Lojuxta across the Middle East. Amryt is focused on finding treatments for rare and orphan diseases, and Lojuxta is a treatment for Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolaemia ("HoFH"), a rare, life-limiting disease, which impairs the body's ability to remove bad cholesterol from the blood. The disease process starts before birth and progresses rapidly, and typically results in extremely high bad cholesterol levels in blood, leading to aggressive and premature narrowing and blocking of blood vessels.  In the Middle East the incidence of HoFH is relatively high, the company said. The distribution agreements have been signed with Al Hafez Trading Establishment, which operates in Kuwait, as well as  Ebn Sina Medical, a medical organisation in Qatar, along with Muscat Pharmacy and Stores in Oman, and Goro Healthcare of the UAE and Bahrain. These agreements extend Amryt's distribution network in the region. "Driving Lojuxta's growth in new and existing territories is a core focus for Amryt in 2018," Joe Wiley, CEO of Amryt Pharma, said. "The Middle East has a higher HoFH patient population per capita than Europe and we look forward to working closely with our new distribution partners to improve patient outcomes. We remain in discussions with other potential distribution partners as we continue to grow our network and market reach for Lojuxta." Since November 2017 Amryt has signed nine new distribution agreements for Lojuxta. The company holds an exclusive licence to sell Lojuxta across Europe, the Middle East, Turkey, Israel, Russia, the Commonwealth of Independent States, and the Balkan states. The recent expansion of the licence agreement has increased the total number of addressable patients in Amryt's territories by approximately 25pc. Last year the company generated revenues of €11.9m from sales of Lojuxta. Online Editors 
