middle east
{ Fearghal O'Connor 
    July 23 2017 05:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/etihad-chief-predicts-first-class-growth-35957908.html }
When Etihad Airways lifts off from Dublin and turns to the east for Abu Dhabi, eagle-eyed passengers on board might spot the tiny clam-fishing boats that ply the coast of north Dublin below. What they wouldn't guess is that the aircraft hold quite possibly contains a consignment of razor clams caught by the boats below, heading via Abu Dhabi to be served fresh in upmarket restaurants in Singapore, Hong Kong and Shanghai. It's a very real example of how air routes open new markets and opportunities, says Etihad's general manager for Ireland, Beatrice Cosgrove. She is seated in the airline's sumptuous new lounge at Dublin Airport, a tasteful and understated amalgam of cultures, with its Islamic prayer room, halal menu, fully-stocked bar and small glass-encased shrine to hurling. "Economic studies show that once there are direct air links, business and travel will grow between two regions. Each time more capacity comes in, the market just grows," she says, And it's not just razor clams that are flying eastward. As the Celtic Tiger roared and then whimpered, Aer Lingus and Gulf Air had axed short-lived routes from Dublin to the Middle East. But since Etihad launched its service in 2007 there has been a steady growth of new long-haul airlines, including Emirates, Turkish Airlines, Ethiopian and, most recently, Qatar Airways. "The Middle East hubs have grown dramatically over the last decade," says Cosgrove. "Instead of people going over Amsterdam or London or Paris as they did previously, they are now going on the more direct one-stop route, for example, Dublin to Sydney, via Abu Dhabi." US and European aviation bosses facing competition from all angles sometimes complain the Middle Eastern giants are subsidised by oil-rich states and thus have no need to turn real profits. Etihad itself has faced pressure recently because of its strategy of buying stakes in struggling regionally-focused airlines such as Air Berlin and Alitalia in order to drive ever more traffic into its network and towards its Abu Dhabi hub. The airline - whose new ceo is an Irishman, Ray Gammell - has responded with a strategic review and measures including allowing economy passengers pay extra to gain access to its high-end lounges, including at Dublin, and allowing passengers bid to have a free seat next to them. For her part, Cosgrove remains confident about continued growth for the airline in Ireland. She does not believe the Irish market has yet hit an upper limit for the amount of long-haul eastbound traffic it can sustain and she is certainly not perturbed by the arrival of Qatar Airways into Dublin, yet another competitor from the east. "If you look at the statistics there is still traffic out of Ireland that goes over the UK and Amsterdam. So will that go on more direct routings? Quite probably it will. That tends to be what you see change first when a new carrier comes into the market. Is there ultimately a limit? Yes I'm sure there is. Are we there? No, we are not." Etihad's launch coincided with the onset of recession but passenger numbers never dipped. "People still travelled, people still went on their holidays and probably got far better value than they had previously," says Cosgrove. Ireland's changing workforce played its part, with Irish-based foreign nationals and their visiting families using Abu Dhabi to connect. "For example, we have a lot of medical staff travelling home to the Philippines once or twice a year and a big Indian community spread right across Ireland, predominantly from southern India." But it was the fallout of the recession that really drove eastbound traffic out of Ireland, and Etihad carried its fair share of young Irish in search of opportunity in Australia, the Middle East and South East Asia. "Traffic increased quite dramatically and a lot of family of people who had emigrated were also travelling to visit them." The airline's capacity figures tell the story. To begin with Etihad offered just 1.600 seats per week out of Dublin but that has grown steadily with extra services and bigger aircraft. In April it upped the service to two flights a day meaning it offers just over 7,300 seats per week, up over 15pc this year alone. Cosgrove does not rule out further increases by using bigger aircraft on the route. "We're constantly reviewing demand. We have a network-planning team in Abu Dhabi that I remain in constant touch with and some of those are Irish guys, which helps. Capacity is open for review." Recently, demand has grown into as well as out of Ireland - with China growing particularly strongly, says Cosgrove. Tourist traffic to Ireland from India, Kuala Lumpur, the Philippines, Japan, Australia and the Middle East is growing too. "Believe it or not, the thing the tourists from the Middle East like most about Ireland is the weather because it is comfortable," she says. Cosgrove, from Claremorris, Co Mayo, discovered her own love of travel while teaching English in Japan in the 1990s. She returned with proficiency in Japanese and took a job with All Nippon Airways in Dublin. After three years she moved to Continental Airlines to become its Irish sales manager for almost a decade. When Bahrain-based Gulf Air arrived in Dublin in 2005 Cosgrove interviewed for a role with its then chief executive James Hogan. The job didn't work out but when Hogan moved to Etihad as its CEO he called her two years later to offer her the job of Etihad's country manager for Ireland. "I flew to Abu Dhabi a week later to meet with them. I was one of the first on the Irish team." The new team had six weeks to prepare for the Irish launch and quickly realised brand awareness of Etihad in Ireland was poor. "I would pick up the phone and ring someone to organise something and say 'Hi, I'm from Etihad Airways'. 'Etiwho?' they would say. It was a major hurdle." The answer was hurling. The airline's surprise sponsorship in 2008 of the ancient game has been an important part of Etihad's Irish strategy. "Hurling has been a big part of the Etihad story for 10 years. The GAA partnership went a long way to making us a brand that was recognised." Etihad also invested in another potent - if less ancient - symbol of Ireland, taking a small stake in Aer Lingus in 2012. EU ownership rules were always going to make it difficult for it to buy the airline outright but there was speculation nonetheless that Etihad could become a major influence in Aer Lingus's then very uncertain future. It wasn't to be and Willie Walsh's IAG swooped. Just where Etihad would have taken its relationship with Aer Lingus is now a moot point. But, says Cosgrove, the close operational relationship between the two has continued. "We entered an interline agreement with Aer Lingus back in 2012 and that is still very much in place and we have a good working relationship, feeding significant US and European bound traffic through Dublin from all around our network." Aer Lingus has recently made its unhappiness about facilities at Dublin Airport clear. Rather than prioritising a new runway, Aer Lingus wants the DAA to focus on more immediate infrastructure issues, like an increase in the number of contact stands with air bridge access. But for Etihad the dynamic is different and Cosgrove says it has always had a good working relationship with the DAA. "Aer Lingus's operation is quite different to ours so they would look at it quite differently. We've a contact stand everyday and right now we are happy with the facilities." Nevertheless, Cosgrove does believe it is important that long-term planning is prioritised. "If you look at Dublin Airport's numbers there is constant growth and the DAA is forecasting for more and more growth, so they will have to provide facilities to handle that." Ten years ago when Etihad first landed at Dublin Airport, construction was just starting on the new €600m Terminal 2. When it opened in 2010 Etihad moved in. It is now so busy during the morning peak that talk of a third terminal has begun. The T2 morning capacity crunch was just one reason Etihad decided earlier this year to relocate to newly refurbished facilities in Terminal 1. "As with all of our decisions it was based around what is consistent and what is right for our guests travelling. In addition, the DAA are working on T1 and have invested quite a lot of money in terms of improving services and the facilities available. From our check-in area to the gate is about a three-minute walk and passengers love that shorter walk. The lounge is also very close." But the changes that have transformed the airline industry in the two decades since Cosgrove returned have been much more fundamental than just the construction of new facilities. The inexorable rise of low-cost carriers in Europe as well as the major Middle Eastern carriers has totally redrawn the competitive landscape. And the way passengers interact with their airline has been revolutionised by digital developments. "I remember sitting in a boardroom in Houston, Texas, when I was with Continental around 2000, brainstorming for a new product. They described a tablet device that they would be using on board for in-flight entertainment. 'Yeah right, like that is going to happen' we were thinking. Now we all have one in our pocket, handbag or briefcase." Etihad has its own innovation centre in Abu Dhabi where it tries out products it might use in aircraft that will be delivered to it in five or six years time. Cosgrove has visited the centre but refuses to divulge anything that is being worked on. "Oh, that is all top-secret," she says with a smile, as a newly arrived Airbus A330 from Abu Dhabi rolls across the ramp outside and the lounge staff prepare for an influx of travellers from the east. Sunday Indo Business 
