middle east
{ Damian Stack 
    October 19 2018 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/sport/gaa/east-kerry-should-have-learned-a-bit-more-37428184.html }
The single most encouraging thing from East Kerry’s point of view is that they found a way. They found a way to haul themselves back into the game, overcoming whatever doubts they had to have been feeling. For so much of the game they looked adrift and bereft of ideas. What Dingle brought to the table genuinely seemed to utterly confound the district combination. Probably for the first time in the competition East Kerry found themselves on the back-foot in a meaningful way. Sure South Kerry scored that goal and had them briefly at a disadvantage in the quarter-final and sure Dingle managed to stay with them for the first half of their second round contest, but this was something different entirely – Dingle were on top, well on top. Neither Dingle’s four point lead or the fact it was double scores at the break flattered the gaeltacht outfit. Seán Geaney had his men completely primed for this match. Once again the former Kerry Under 21 boss got his tactics spot on. Where East Kerry looked scrambled, Dingle looked cool, calm and composed. Everybody knew their job, everybody understood how it related to what their colleagues were doing. Take Matthew Flaherty’s role as an example. He played the role of sweeper in concert with his colleagues in the defence to a T and together they frustrated East Kerry no end. All that East Kerry attacking flair was impotent in the face of Dingle’s tactical discipline and structure. It took a few moments of inspiration from David Clifford – the point he kicked before the brawl which saw Paul Devane red-carded was miraculous – to keep Jerry O’Sullivan’s men in touch with Dingle. Even then that hardly seemed enough. Not after Paul Geaney brilliantly assisted Tom O’Sullivan for a goal midway through the second half. Dingle held a six point lead – 1-10 to 0-7. The game looked theirs for the taking. Much like the South Kerry game, however, the goal seemed to spark something in East Kerry. They began to get a grip around the middle third – in the second half they won eight of Dingle’s twelve kick-outs – and their attacking play improved immeasurably in concert and probably as a result of that fact. It took them a while, but East Kerry finally figured out how to play this Dingle system. Of course, there’s also the fact that as the game wore on it inevitably opened up, which suited East Kerry – as did the twin dismissals of Devane and Shane McSweeney (on a second yellow). We can’t escape the feeling that last Sunday was Dingle’s best chance of pulling this off. They had the element of surprise, they took their best shot and it still wasn’t quite enough. Some of the advantages they held over East Kerry last weekend simply won’t be there next weekend. East Kerry now know truly know in a way they didn’t after they slammed six goals past Dingle in the second round, what it is they’re facing this weekend. After the second round clash Dingle more obviously had more to learn. After the drawn game here that now flips to East Kerry’s advantage. The knowledge gleaned from last Sunday should prove invaluable. East Kerry have the greater scope for improvement. There’s more to come from guys like Dara Moynihan and Darragh Roche and they’re likely to attempt a few more long balls into David Clifford earlier in the match than they did at the weekend given the returns they got from it. East Kerry will be hampered by the likely loss of Kevin McCarthy through injury, but Dingle will be without Paul Devane, who’s had a really fine championship so far. Shane McSweeney will be available for selection, meanwhile. All those little indications are trending in East Kerry’s direction. Despite being held expertly for so much of that match when they had to, really had to, they were able to hit one of those purple patches of theirs. In the fifteen minutes to full-time East Kerry executed a seven point turnaround – turning a six point deficit into a one point lead before Tom O’Sullivan’s last gasp equaliser. That’s damned impressive and it has to be a little bit demoralising for Dingle. It’s going to be really interesting to see what rabbit Seán Geaney pulls from his hat this time around, in the last two games he’s won the tactical battle with his counterpart on the line. The progress Dingle have made over the course of the championship shouldn’t be understated. They went from a situation where they were seventeen points behind East Kerry to one where they were good enough to draw. They’ve obviously got a real shot of pulling this off this weekend – if everybody is available to them – but the odds must favour East Kerry. Verdict: East Kerry Kerryman 
