middle east
{ Elaine Byrne 
    February 22 2014 10:04 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/hurling/its-very-hard-to-convince-them-that-we-exist-30033784.html }
'Just pure emotional to hold him for the second time in six months." Thomas Francis (27) is standing on the roof of his car holding the Liam MacCarthy Cup. The park ranger for Sydney's Centennial Park has stopped his jeep and is asking what all the commotion is about. The men taking photos of Francis dancing on his saffron and blue flag-laden car are wearing Clare jerseys. The ranger has now noticed the hundred or so people with hurleys and beer at the BBQ. He is reaching for his radio. Liam is introduced to him with the reverence of a marriage proposal. The members from Michael Cusacks, a Sydney GAA club founded by emigrants from Clare, are trying to explain about hurling and what 'Liam' means to them. Everyone is on first-name terms with Liam. The ranger does not understand. Francis is a pipe layer from Ballyvaughan in north Clare. He grew up hurling for Tubber with Patrick O'Connor, wing-back for the All-Ireland champions. It was the middle of the night in Australia when Clare won the semi-final. Francis booked his flight there and then, at 4.0am, for the final. "I said to the boss I'd be back in 12 days, that was the plan, but then they drew," he smiles wearily. Francis had to get a new job when he eventually returned to Australia after the replay and celebrations. The GAA is more than a sport. For emigrants, it is about identity and place. Sarah Nix describes herself as Feohanagh Castlemahon GAA first before she says she's from Limerick. The medical device technician took up camogie in her 20s when she arrived in Sydney. The social life and the sense that "Irish people cling together with the GAA," appealed to her. The Facebook pages of Michael Cusacks, Craobh Phádraigh, Cormac McAnallens, Young Ireland and the 44 other Australian GAA clubs act as community outreach centres where employment, accommodation and advice compete for space about training times. The GAA has always been the sport of exiles. Sam Maguire captained the successful London Hibernian Gaelic football team to three All-Ireland finals between 1900 and 1904. Liam MacCarthy was born in London to Irish parents and served as chairman of the London County Board for 10 years. Yet their first visits to Australia only came in 2013 and 2014. Ordinarily, the GAA abroad does not figure prominently at home, although this weekend is an exception as delegates from the overseas units are in Dublin for Congress weekend. "Its very hard to convince them [GAA chiefs] that we exist," says Thomas Doyle from Carlow. The Kildavin man trains Qatar, the most successful club in Asia and the Middle East for the last few years. He would like to see the new president at the big tournaments abroad. Over 1,000 players were involved in the Asian finals in Kuala Lumpur last year. The European, Middle East and Australian GAA teams interviewed for this article all believe that Croke Park and the media need to do more to acknowledge that they exist. Qatar depends on the goodwill of the Doha Rugby Club for its grounds. Michael Cusacks hosted the Liam MacCarthy in a public park because the biggest club in Sydney, with over 200 members, has no clubhouse. My former club, Vienna Gaels, pay an annual fee to the city council for access to a pitch on the edge of the city. None receive any "financial redistribution" from Croke Park. Qatar GAA receives ten CVs a fortnight through their webpage, an issue particularly common to all the Middle East clubs with booming economies. 'I play GAA, this is my standard, this is what I've won, I'm looking for a job in the Middle East,' read the cover letters according to Doyle. It's not just about finding work in the Middle East, it's about finding a GAA club. "Everybody's social life is built around the GAA," Doyle says. "It was like home 15 years ago. Irish society and the GAA club have morphed into one entity." Donegal All-Ireland winner Ryan Bradley is just one of three inter-county players on the Qatar team which includes Armagh's Michael Stevenson and Kildare's Colm Coyle. Qatar were the first non-Irish team to win the St Jude's sevens last year. Doyle reckons that the best Middle East 15 would compete in any senior county final. Frank Stapleton agrees. The welder from Kilmallock in Limerick trained Michael Cusacks up until last year and noticed that ''the standard has picked up big time, better young lads coming out, more competitive." Young Clare lads like Conor Hassett from St Joseph's Doora Barefield, Jimmy Larkin from St Senan's and Darragh Considine from St Breckan's. The Clare Champion no longer files reports about their last-minute goals in county finals. It is difficult to move to another country. The sense of isolation and vulnerability is raw without a support network. Lost in someone else's nation. "The club offers a home away from home it isn't all just about the football, it is about the community behind the football," says John Baxter of Vienna Gaels, the 2013 Pan European Champions. Sunday Indo Sport 
