middle east
{  
    August 07 2013 03:39 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/beaufort-29477065.html }
BEAUFORT Lotto: There was no jackpot winner.Numbers drawn: 1,16,17,22. Consolation Prizes. €80 Irene Coffey, London. €50 Ann O'Donoghue, Coolmagort, Donncha Crowley, Carhubeg and Eugene O'Hagan, Shanacloon. Next draw for a jackpot of €5,000 will be held on Sunday, 11th August in Galvin's Bar. Fixtures U16's Beaufort v John Mitchels(away) on Wed. 31st July in final round of County League U 12's Beaufort v Keel(away) on Thursday, 1st August at 6.30pm in Mid Kerry Competition. U 14's Beaufort v Milltown/Castlemaine(home) on Sunday, 4th August at 7pm in Mid Kerry competition. Beaufort have a bye in Mid Kerry minor league on Thursday, 1st August. U 21'S Beaufort will play the winners of Laune Rangers v St Michael's Foilmore on Monday, 5th August at 3pm in U21 Club competition(away) Well done to Sean Coffey and Fiadhna Tangney who played in the Primary game during the Munster final recently. Well done to the Under 14 team who reached the semi-final of the John Egan Gathering Tournament (group 2) The Under 12's competed in the Under 12 tournament in Fitzgerald Stadium and received a tour of the stadium afterwards. Cycle: This cycle was the brainchild of Patie Hartnett and Eanna O'Malley and we congratulate them both for their hard work. The cycle was run in conjunction with Killorglin Cycling Club and would not have been possible without the expertise and help of Micheal and Mary Concannon.This was a huge undertaking and the Club are delighted with all the help and sponsorship they received. A special mention to John O'Leary (Wholesome Fare Killarney and West End House) for his beautiful pasta. On a personal note I would like to thank Dawn Dairies, O'Sullivan's Bakery Killorglin, Kissanes Food Store, Beaufort Free Range Eggs and Cian O'Sullivan Shanacloon for their sponsorship. A very special thanks to all the ladies who did the catering,the bakers,sandwich makers and every one who helped in the hall. This was a great Community event and again Mile Buiochas to everyone who helped make it such an enjoyable and successful day. We are all looking forward to next year. CROMANE Cromane -v- Knocknagoshel.: The final score was Cromane 0.6. Knocknagoshel 1.6. Knocknagoshel were visitors to Cromane on Sat last for round 8 of the Co. League. The game was played in perfect conditions. Cromane raced into a 2 point lead with 2 points from play one by Mikey Houlihan and one by Sean Sullivan. The sides were soon level after 2 points one from play and the other from a free by Edmond Walsh. Cromane then had 2 goal chances but it was Knocknagoshel who struck for the only goal of the game after a great pass by Edmond Walsh Ciarain Downey scored a goal for Knocknagoshel. Cromane were then redeuced to 14 men after 2 yellow cards and Knocknagoshel introuduced James Walsh who immediately made an impact scoring a point from play. Cromane then had a pointed free long distance by Sean O.Sullivan. Edmond Walsh had another point from play for Knocknagoshel and on the stroke of half time, Cromane had a pointed free from Sean Sullivan. The half time score was Knocknagoshel 1.4. Cromane 0.4. In the second half Knocknagoshel increased their lead to 4 points with a free by Edmond Walsh. Cromane then had a point from play by Micheal Shaughnessy but this was cancelled out by a point from play by James Walsh. The remainder of the half was dominated by Cromane with Sean Sullivan scoring 2 points from frees. Knocknagoshel did have a number of scoring opportunities but kicked bad wides. This left 1 point between the sides with 2 minutes on the clock and Sean O.Sullivan obliged with a point from play to leave the sides level. Cromane had 1 opportunity to snatch victory but it went narrowely wide. The final score was Cromane 0.9. Knocknagoshel 1.6. The game was excellently refereed by James O.Sullivan of Firies and provided his own umpires. MEMBERSHIP of Cromane Gaa Club is now due and should be paid as soon as possible. Adults €30. Players €40. Students €20. Under Age €10. Family Membership €40. Registrars Theresa O.Sullivan, Patrick Casey or Sean Sullivan. LOTTO: The numbers drawn on 24th July in the Cromane Gaa Lottto were 4,12.19.25. There was no winner of the €5,400 Jackpot. Four prizes of €30 each went to Pat Shearley, USA. Annual Ticket. Eileen Foley, Beaufort. Ticket sold by Gradys Bar. Stephen O.Sullivan, Cromane Lr. Ticket sold by Patrick Casey. Patsy Murphy, c/o Red Fox. Ticket sold by Patie Joy If youre not in, you cant win. Tickets available in local Bars, Mad Mix Discount Shop, Killorglin Cr. Union. Gradys Bar and usual sellers. CURROW Cul Camps: The Kellogs Cul camp is on in Currow all this week. To participate in the Cul camp costs €55 and there are discounts available for other members of the family. Saturday Morning Coaching Sessions: Please note as a result of the Cul Camp being held during that week there will be no Saturday morning coaching session on Saturday 3rd August. U10 Challenge Game: Currow travelled to neighbours Firies for a challenge where they played U9 and U10 games. Well done to all that played. U6 Challenge Game: Last Saturday, the Currow U6 team took on Cordal at home. Cordal proved too strong on the day but all had a good time playing. U11 East Kerry League: Currow played Kilcummin away last Monday evening and came away with another great win. Final Score Currow 5-16 to Kilcummin 2-11. They were due to play Glenflesk at home on 22nd July and away to Beaufort on 29th July. U14: Last Sunday evening Currow travelled to Brosna but the home won a tight game by three points. Currow now play Dr.Crokes away on 5th August. U16 County League: Last Monday, Currow made the trip to Waterville in the County League. However during the game the referee got injured and the game was abandoned. On Wednesday evening they played Firies at home. The visitors proved far too strong and won well in the end - Final Score Currow 4-5 to Firies 5-12. They are due to play Churchill away on the 31st July. DR CROKES DIV. 1 CO. LEAGUE Dr. Crokes 1-15 Laune Rangers 1-09. Dr. Crokes gained 2 valuable league points with a six point victory over Laune Rangers on Saturday night last. Daithi Casey opened the scoring in the1st minute with a point for the homes side quickly cancelled out by a Kevin Flynn minor. Mike Frank Russell with a free inched the visitors ahead in the 8th minute. Crokes had 6 un-answered points from Brian Looney (2) Shane Myers Alan O'Sullivan (2) Brendan Falvey before conceeding a Og in the 24th minute following a defensive mix up Johnny Carey for Rangers and D. Casey traded points to leave Dr. Crokes leading at the interval 0-08 to 1-03. On the resumption O'Sullivan & Russell swapped points and the crucial score of the game came in the 8th minute when following a good inter passing movement left Falvey free with only the goalkeeper to beat and he made no mistake. Casey stretched the lead 1-10 to 1-05 after 12minutes . 3 consecutive points from Falvey stretched the Crokes advantage further. Points from Shane McSweeney & Shane O'Connor kept Laune Rangers in touching distance, Ambrose o'Donovan with a fine effort pushed Crokes further ahead but Russell & Flynn narrowed the gap but with time up Gavin O'Shea had the final score. Best for Crokes were John Payne, Mark Egan David O'Leary Shane Myers in defence O'Donovan & O'Sullivan controlled midfield whilst in the forwards Brendan Falvey, Gavin O'Shea Daithi Casey & Brian Looney were best. For Laune Rangers Shane McSweeney Kieran Crowley John Sheehan M.F. Russell & Kevin Flynn tried hardest. MINOR CO. CHAMPIONSHIP Dr. Crokes 6-19 Kenmare District 1-06 Dr. Crokes easily overcame the Kenmare District challenge in Round 3 of the Minor championship Four first half goals from Lawrence Byrnes, Miceal Burns and a Jordan Kiely brace one from the penalty spot gave the home side a decisive advantage and despite the best efforts of Killian Spillane & John Rice Crokes led at the break 4-11 to 1-04 the Kenmare goal coming from a speculative lob from Pat Spillane. On the resumption Crokes kept piling on the pressure and kicked some wonderfull points killian Spillane now ploughing a lone furrow for the visitors had their only scores of the second half whils Crokes finished with a flourish with goals at the end from Byrnes and Tony Brosnan. This was a poor fare with the result never in doubt after the opening 15minutes. We now meet St. Brendans in the q/f. COISTE NA OG U13 Football We played two games last week. On Wednesday the opposition was Laune Rangers. In attack, Lee Downing scored 1-6, Roan Delaney 1-4, Josh Fleming 2-0, Mark Cooper 0-4, Fionnbharr Hickey 0-2 and Frank MacGuire 0-1 to amass a total of 4-17 to Laune's 3-11. This victory was based on some great team-work all over the pitch. In goal Oisín O'Connor was brilliant. Gary O'Connor, Mark Donnelan, Lorcan O'Hare Wyatt and Liam Kelleher put up a strong defence. Seán O'Neill was a powerhouse in the middle of the pitch, while up front, Colm Cagney, Seán Magann and Seán O'Shea worked really hard in attack. This was a tremendous display and a well-earned win for the Crokes boys. On Sunday, Austin Stacks visited Lewis Road for our last game and were unbeaten in this competition. Stacks had the better start going up 1-1 without reply. Lee Downing then put over a point followed by two from Seán Magann. Scores were evenly shared after this, with Roan Delaney popping a hat-trick of goals accompanied by a point from Fionnbharr Hickey. Jonathon Mee in goal pulled off some tremendous point-blank saves and the full-back line of Mark Donnellan, Jason Cahillane and Gary O'Connor were on top of their opponents, right throughout the game. JJ Buckley was also making an impact in defence. In attack David O'Mahony and Lorcan O'Hare Wyatt were creating a lot of trouble with well-timed runs and hard defending. By half-time Crokes were trailing 3-4 to 3-11. Crokes came out fighting in the second half, determined to draw back that lead. Another point from Lee Downing and a goal by Colm Cagney brought us back into this game. Scores flowed from both sides. Lee Downing slammed two terrific goals and a point. Liam Kelleher also took a great point and Fionnbharr Hickey banged three wonderful points in a row. Oisín O'Connor played brilliantly in goal and was well protected by Shane Looney, who is showing improvement with every game. Frank MacGuire put in a lot of work around the middle of the park. Seán O'Neill was tasked with marking the tallest man on the pitch and competed very well to claim a lot of ball. Josh Fleming is really showing himself to be a real prospect for Crokes, with some outstanding performances, recently. Seán O'Shea was our captain for this game and put in some hard work in attack. A gutsy second half saw the Crokes outscore Stacks. However, it was not enough to pull back the half-time deficit. The final score was Crokes 6-11 Austin Stacks 5-18. Next up for these boys is the Under 14 East Kerry Championship. SCHOOLS OUT Free Fun & Games for everyone continues every Wednesday from 5 to 6 in Lewis Rd. All ages and new children always welcome.. Just come up & join in. SUMMER CAMP Our Hugely Popular Summer Camp which will take place from Monday 26th to Wednesday 28th of August. Please watch club notes or check out our website for more information. GUESS THE SCORE Thanks to all who contributed to the recent Munster Final Guess the Score Competition. With no entry correctly guessing the final score , a draw was made of all the entries and the results are as follows: First and winner of a signed Kerry jersey, Stella Loughnane, second and winner of a ?100 Crokes shop voucher , Mathew Doncel and in third place and winner of a signed Colm Cooper jersey is Chris Manton. All winners have been notified. Thanks to the children who made the effort to raise much needed funds for our juvenile section. GOLF MAJOR CHALLENGES due to the close proximity of the final 2 majors the organising committee have decided not to organise a challenge for USPGA. We thank everyone who have participated over the last few years and look forward to your continued support in 2014. LOTTO The Jackpot of ?3,900 was not won on Sunday last, numbers drawn were 9,12,16,23. Match 3 winners received €30. Jackpot on Bank Holiday Monday will be €4,200. MEMBERS B/BQ will be held on Saturday August 10. BEST WISHES to the Kerry Teams next weekend in Croker and especially to Captain Eoin, Colm, Kieran, Johnny & Fionn in the Seniors and Miceal & Tony in the minors BIRTHDAY GREETINGS to Hurling stalwart who celebrated a milestone last week. SYMPATHY to the O'Mahony family St. Annes Road on the death of Thomas, and to the Doyle family on the death of former Spa player John. FIRIES BALLYHAR FIRIES BALLYHAR GAA LOTTO: 13, 15, 30, jackpot not won. €30 to Joe O'Riordan, Farranfore; Joanne Browne, Cunnigar; Shanon O'Doherty, c/o Frank; Michael O'Sullivan, Batterfield; Donal Spring, Gortavillen. The jackpot will be €2200 this week in the Airport. 31 CARD DRIVE: Prizewinners in Farranfore 20th July, 1st Jim McMahon and Mary Moynihan; 2nd P. & D. Flaherty; N. O'Connor, F. Linehan; K. Kelly, H. Hickey; J. Kissane, J. O'Connell; J. Rahilly, P. Looney. Raffle: J. de Lacy, J. Kenny, P. O'Sullivan, K. Brosnan, F. Linehan. CUL CAMP: Over 90 children took part in the Cul Camp in Pairc Eamonn last week. Thanks to Vince Cooper and his coaches who taught the skills while having fun. U 16's Firies had a comphrensive victory over Currow in the County League. Next game V Skellig Rangers/ Valentia this evening at 7.30pm Minors Firies played Fossa in the East Kerry League on Monday evening in Farranfore Seniors Firies 2-7 Ballymac 2-13 In a must win game Firies came up short missing a few regulars things got worse with Mike Daly getting injured in the warm-up meaning he was unable to start. Ballymac then got the perfect start with a goal in the 1st minute and Firies found it hard to catch up even with a goal from Mike Daly they still went in at half-time 1-4 to 1-6 down. The second half was an even affair with Mike Daly grabbing a second goal but a goal by Ballymac in the last 5 minutes saw Ballymac secure the win on a score of Firies 2-7 Ballymac 2-13 Team Paul Murphy Donough O'Donoghue John Hayes Josh Flynn Dan O'Shea John O'Mahony Sean O'Sullivan Con O'Mahony Dan O'Connor Padraig O'Sullivan Tadgh O'Keefffe Stephen Foley Gerry Fitzgerald Billy O'Rourke James O'Donoghue Subs Mike Daly Denis Kerrisk Cian Browne FOSSA Fossa GAA Lotto 21/07/2013: Numbers Drawn: 6, 10, 16, 22 No Winner.€40 consolation prize winners: Pat Sweeney - Tomies, Paudie Sweeney - Tomies, Martina Healy - Knockelbade, Deirdre Foran - Ross Dara, Martin Brosnan - Old Killarney Village. Tickets on sale at the Golden Nugget Bar, The Travel Inn, The Old Killarney Inn, McCarthy's Centra Shop, The Laurels Bar, Killarney and from committee members. *Coiste Na nOg:* Fossa u14 girls had an enjoyable week (8th-14th July) when they hosted Bailieborough Shamrocks from Cavan in the Comortas Peile John Egan. The Fossa Coiste na nOg boys were hosting Ballyroan from Abbeylix. The girls were free from football on Wednesday and with temperatures reaching 27 degrees Inch beach was on the schedule.Later in the evening Fossa girls and boys along with Bailieborough Shamrock girls and Ballyroan boys enjoyed an evening of music and food. On Thursday, Fossa Gaa provided their facilities for the girls competition. With teams missing players due to holidays and trips to the Gaeltacht, Abbeydorney, Southern Gaels, Currow, Glenflesk, Fossa and extra Cavan girls combined forces to play football. Castleisland Desmonds, Rathmore, Bailieborough Shamrocks and Fossa were through to semi finals. Thursday evening Killarney town center came to a standstill for a parade of host and visiting clubs. A wonderful array of colour was on display with pipe bands leading the boys and girls through the streets of Killarney where every club had their colours flying high. The night finished up with a concert in the INEC by Scor musicians. Again on Friday morning (12th) Fossa Gaa made their fine facilities available for the semi finals, Fossa and Rathmore was a tight affair with Rathmore pipping Fossa on a scoreline 0-4 to 0-2. In the other Semi final Bailieborough were comprehensive winners over Castleisland Desmonds. On next to Fitzgerald Stadium for the girls Div 1 and Shield finals. In the shield final Naas ran out comfortable winners over Abbeydorney. The Div 1 final was a titanic battle between Rathmore and Bailieborough with the Cavan girls running out eventual winners. This ended a great year for the Cavan girls as they are Div 1 Cavan county league winners, Cavan Feile champions and have created history by becoming the first winners of the Comortas Peile John Egan Tournament. Cavan captains Andrea o Reilly and Leanne Kiernan were presented with the John Egan memorial trophy. GLENBEIGH GLENCAR Glenbeigh/Glencar travelled to Listry on Saturday evening for a top of division 3 encounter. The away team got off to a great start with two brilliantly taken points from Gavan O' Grady in the first 10 minutes. Listry replied with two points to level the match but some tenacious play from Colin Mcgillicuddy, Joe Mcgillicuddy, Stephen O Sullivan and Rory O Connor kept the pressure on the home side. Listry created a host of scoring chances during the half but were unable to convert.Gavan O Grady continued his impressive performance grabbing his third point from play and Cooley slotting over two frees from fouls on Kieran Courtney and Jason Mckenna to take a three point advantage into the break 0-02 to 0-05 Listry started the second half with a good move which resulted in Peter O' Sullivan making a great near post save to maintain Glenbeigh/Glencar's advantage. Listry were digging deep but impressive displays from Kieran Doyle, Danny O Sullivan, Vincent Hoare,Feargal Griffin and a lively Sean Roche kept the scoring chances to a minimum.It was the home side that opened the scoring in the second half with a point but Gavan Grady quickly responded after a chance created by the industrious Rory O' Connor. The home team reduced the deficit by two points to make the score 0-05 to 0-07 midway through the half. James O' Sullivan restored the visitors three point advantage before O Grady scored an outstanding point from the sideline which Maurice Fitz would of been proud of. The match was end to end and another fine point from Listry reduced the Glenbeigh/Glencar lead to three. Gavan O' Grady slotted over his fourth free of the match and it looked like the visitors were homeward bound before the ref awarded a very dubious penalty to throw Listry a lifeline. The penalty was accurately dispatched and left Peter O' Sullivan with no chance as he saw the effort driven inside the post into the back of the net. Glenbeigh/Glencar held a narrow one point advantage 0-10 to 1-6 but Gavan O' Grady continued his exhibition scoring the best point of the evening after a jinking run which saw him beat most of the Listry back line. The home team had a chance to take the lead but for the heroics of Vincent Hoare which saw him block a certain goal when he through his body in front of the forward shot with only the goal to beat. It was the visitors that clicked through the gears in the remaining minutes with the impressive Joe Mac pulling the strings in the middle of the field. Rory O Connor grabbed a well deserved point quickly followed by a point from Danny O' Sullivan in the dying minute to give the Glenbeigh/Glencar men a well deserved win by 0-13 to 1-6 which sees them climb to the top of the division 3 table KEEL Club Lotto: There was no winner of the Lotto Jackpot worth €11,500 held on Sunday 28st July. Numbers drawn were 12, 22, 23 and 25. €50 winner was John A. Cahillane, Gortanedin. €25 winners were Attilla Lengiel, Ballyhar, Alvin Ahern, Castlemaine, Linda Cahillane, Ballyarkane and Dara Laverty, Ardcanaught.. Nest weeks Lotto Jackpot is €11,600 and the draw will take place in Murphys Bar on Sunday 4th August. Tickets can be bought in local shops and pubs and off of senior players and club officials. County League. Keel moved into second place in Division 4 with a resounding 9 point victory over Moyvane in Moyvane Saturday night. The first half was marred by heavy showers and Keel led 5-3 at half time with two points each from Gary Sayers, and Mike O'Connor and one from Eoghan O'Connor. Keel completely dominated the second half and pulled away with points from Liam O'Shea, Gary Sayers, Kieran Foley, James Long and Tom Ladden. Final Score Keel 0-13 Moyvane 0-4. Team: Stephen Cahillane, Eoghan O'Connor, Gary Nagle, Aaron Brosnan, Aaron Cahillane, Martin Burke, Shane Prendiville, Tom Ladden, James Long, Eoin O'Neill, Gary Sayers, Jason Foley, Liam O'Shea, Mike O'Connor, James Nagle. Subs used: Kieran Foley, Ian Foley, Niall Sheehan, John A Cahillane. Junior County League Final. Keel will play Renard in the Junior League County Final on Friday 2nd August in Glenbeigh Be a GAA Star of the Future! Future Stars Football Summer Camp is being held at Keel GAA Pitch on Monday Aug 5th to Thurs 8th Inclusive, for ages 6 to 12 years. Camp will run from 10-2.30pm daily. All Children attending will receive an O Neill's Football & T shirt & A visit from a Kerry Player!! Camp Prices are €40 per child, 2nd or subsequent child is €30.. To register for Camp Please contact Jason Foley on (087)3509115 KILCUMMIN UNDER 16 BOYS: Under 16 Boy's play Gneeveguilla at home on Wednesday 31st July. CLUB MERCHANDISE: Wear your club colours!!! A large range of Merchandise is available in the club colours with the club crest. Niamh Dwyer is the merchandise co-ordinator for the club. Contact Niamh on 087- 9801105 or niamhfitzgerald@hotmail.com. Hoodies, Track Suits, Training T-Shirts, Jerseys Shorts, Socks, rain jackets, Polo Shirts and Windcheaters are all available in Children's, Youth and Adult sizes. JUVENILE ACADEMY: Kilcummin's Juvenile Academy runs each Saturday from 10.30am until 11.45am. Boys and girls from 5 to 10 years old are all welcome to join their appropriate group on a Saturday morning to be trained by our volunteer coaches and trainers. Anybody who would like to participate and lend a hand during training sessions is more than welcome. Just say it to any of the mentors and it will be easily arranged. Many hands make light work!!! SUMMER CAMP: Kilcummin's Summer Camp for boys and girls will take place on 19th, 20th and 21st August. The summer camp is always very popular with coaching and games over the three days. At a cost of €20 per child the camp represents extremely good value this year. CREDIT UNION CO LEAGUE RD 8 - WATERVILLE 1-11 KILCUMMIN 2-8 Our lads worked very hard for what could yet prove an invaluable point in this keenly contested game played in very intense heat on Sunday last in Waterville. Leading 2-4 to 0-5 at half time having played with a slight breeze we quickly found ourselves hanging on to a one point early in the second half. But with great resilience we stemmed the tide and it took an injury time point from a free for Waterville to gain a share of the spoils. Kilcummin's goals came from the boot of Jer Sheehan and the fist of the very effective Jamie O'Sullivan while Waterville's goal came a Stephen Dwyer penalty. Kilcummin now face St Michael's Foilmore in Rd 9 on August 18th in Kilcummin. A special word of thanks to our huge number of loyal supporters who made the 100 mile round trip to cheer on the team despite many counter attractions on Sunday. KILGARVAN Gerald Hussey Memorial Cup: Well done to Kilgarvan U10 football team who won the football tournament on Saturday July 20th, sponsored by Sneem GAA Club. A total of ten teams took part including teams from Kenmare, Cahersiveen, Dromid, Sneem, Templenoe, Renard, Kilgarvan and Derrynane. Kilgarvan beat Templenoe in the semi-final and Kenmare in the final. It was Kilgarvan's first win in an underage tournament in a long time. Corey Murphy was captain of the team and was presented with the Gerald Hussey Memorial Cup. The team panel were as follows: Kyle Cronin, Owen O'Shea, Mary Ellen McCarthy, Tadgh O'Donoghue, Dan Twomey, Corey Murphy (Captain), Timmy O'Donoghue, Luke Scannell and Michael O'Donoghue. Thomas and Darragh Creedon were absent due to injury and Mark Casey was attending the wedding of Joanne Casey. Mentor: John Foley. John creedon was very much involved with the team during the year. Minor Football: Well done to Patrick O'Shea and John Mark Foley who were on the Kenmare District Board Minor football team. In the first game they lost to Dingle, defeated Legion in the second game and were beaten by Dr. Crokes, they thus failed to advance to the QF of the Championship. Hurlers Win County Title: The combined team of players from Kilgarvan and Kenmare won the County U14 Hurling Division 2 League on Sunday July 21st. The game was played at Austin Stacks Park, Tralee. The final score was Kilgarvan/Kenmare 7-10 St. Brendans/Ardfert 2-5. The Roughty Valley team playing with the wind in the 1st half led at half time 7-7 to 0-2. The team lined out as follows: Michael O'Connor (Ken.), Cieran O'Sullivan (Ken.), Sean Casey (Kilg.), David Cronin (Ken.), Richard O'Sullivan (Kilg.), Christopher Creedon (Kilg.),Dan McCarthy (Ken.), Kevin Healy (Kilg.), Liam Twomey (Kilg.), Michael McCarthy (Ken.), Joe Doyle (Ken.), Donal O'Sulivan (Kilg), James O'Connell (Kilg.),Gearoid Fennessey (Kilg), Daniel Casey (Kilg.). Subs who played included Padraigh Dillon, Jack Foley and Michael Rice (all Kilgarvan). Griffin Wharton and Conor Lucey (both Kenmare). Kieran Kelleher, Kilgarvan had been part of the team all year but was unable to attend due to illness. Mentors: Owen O'Sullivan, Flor O'Brien, John and Mickey Foley. Collection: Kilgarvan GAA Club Annual collection will be taken up at Masses this weekend. KILLARNEY LEGION GIRLS U14 CO.FINAL Killarney Legion 6-10 Austin Stacks 3-2 A flying start from the Stacks with a goal straight from the off certainly put it up to the u14 girls side who despite the setback responded magnificently with 1-5,the goal coming from Fiadhna Tangney.Settling to their task there followed further goals from Elizabeth Mohan and Abbie Cronin.Anna Culloty and Eve Coffey made a huge contribution to make the scoreline of 3-5 to 2-0 at half time.Things might have been better for Stacks but for the safe hands of Carmel Looney and the massive effort of Meabh Crowley and Jane McGillycuddy.Half backs Laura Corlett,Kiah Doona and Abby O'Donoghue got more than their fair share of ball and this led to a great second half with mid-fielders Shania Costello and Sarah Leahy all on top.Rachel McCarthy together with Ellen Coffey and Niamh Randles never put a foot wrong and even though the Stacks hit back for 1-2 Eve Coffey netted for the Legion to see her side garner another title for this fantastic panel of players and their mentors. MINOR LEAGUE: Killarney Legion 4-12 Glenflesk 1-12. The last time theses two sides met Glenflesk chipped away at substantial deficit but ultimately ran out of road,this time however the Legion minors learnt their lesson well from that experience as they set about their task with a determined high tempo approach that yielded 4 well taken goals and a quality performance that earned them their win. With a hard working defence providing the springboard, in which Mason Ferris and Kieran Courtney were always to the fore the Legion also enjoyed dominance at midfield with Jack O Neill and Donal Lyne in top form.As usual Brendan Lyne was very effective as a target man and he rowed in with two well taken goals along with one each from Lee Callaghan and young Peter McCarthy.Glenflesk were dangerous on the break but man of the match goalkeeper Stephen Griffin delivered a string of top class saves to keep his side in front. COUNTY LEAGUE DIV.1 Killarney Legion 1-4 Dingle 1-7 The seniors poor run of form continued in this Co.League fixture away to Dingle.When you fail to score in the first half of a game then you know you have problems and so it proved.Despite an improved showing in the second half the homeside played to their strengths and garnered the two points.This defeat and rather the manner would appear to have left the club with a huge mountain to climb to avoid relegation. SUMMER CAMP Just a reminder that the "Ready Steady Go Summer Camp" is kicking off next Tuesday August 6th.Running from that date to Friday August 9th between 10am and 2pmit promises to be a hive of activity with kids from 5-12 years old signed up.The camp is fully booked at time of writing and at the end of the week the campers will be presented with the new exclusive"college style"jacket for their efforts. U16 GIRLS Well done to the u16 girls who qualified for the county league final as a result of their thrilling 4-7 to 4-6 win away to Austin Stacks,rallying from 5 points down with less than 15 mins.on the clock to snatch victory right at the death. BEST WISHES to Dodo Hegarty who is recovering from recent surgery on his knee - somehow we can't see it slowing him down. BIRTHDAY GREETINGS: Many happy returns to Ladies chairman Mike Leahy - who celebrated his birthday (and Cork's win over the Cats) this past week. KERRY ON THE DOUBLE: As we get to the business end of the football season we wish both the Kerry minors and seniors, and especially Conor, Jonathan, Brian and James the very best of luck as they face Tyrone and Cavan respectively. KINGDOM KERRY GAELS KKG Men's Team - Kingdom Kerry Gaels training continues on Tuesday 30th July & Thursday 01st August @ 8.00pm at Finchley Rugby Club. Kingdom Kerry Gaels will play Fulham Irish in the Division 1senior league on Saturday next 3rd August at 3.30pm in Ruislip. New Players welcome - Moving to London? KKG GAA club, a team trained by former London inter-county manager Noel Dunning, are under a new regime and have big plans for 2013. Long established in the heart of the Irish community, KKG is a thriving club that prides its self in looking after its members in every way possible. So if you are interested in working and playing Gaelic football in London, KKG can help make the transition easier for you by securing accommodation if necessary, employment in your chosen field, or whatever assistance you might need to convince you that London can be the place for you. Please contact - Noel Dunning (Men's Team) 0044 7887 930 081 Club website - http://www.kkglondon.co.uk/ LAUNE RANGERS SENIORS: The Seniors were away to Dr. Crokes on Saturday last in Round 8 of the County League. Crokes won on a scoreline of 1-15 to 1-09. B-TEAM: The B-Team hosted Ballydonoghue on Sunday last in round 8 of the County League. A good second half comeback saw the lads win by the minimum. Full-time score: Laune Rangers 3-06 to 0-14. U-16: The U-16's play St. Mary's/Renard on Wednesday evening at 7:30pm in the Track in the final round of the County League. LOTTO: Lotto draw for Sunday July 28th. Jackpot €2,400 - no winner. Numbers drawn: 04 - 13 - 17 - 20. Consolation Prizes: €100 Beatrice Peevers, c/o Clothes Line, sold by Colette. €50 Kevin & Margaret Galvin, sold by Margaret Galvin. Credit Union Vouchers: € 0 Nina, Killorglin, sold by Margaret Browne. €50 Brid Moriarty, standing order. Next week's jackpot will be €2,600. LOTTO ROTA: July Lotto Team: Mike O'Sullivan, John Foley MEETING: The next Club meeting will take place on Thursday 1st August at 9pm in the J.P. O'Sullivan Park Clubrooms. All members welcome. Please note revised time. RATHMORE Best wishes to Aidan O'Mahony and Shane Ryan who tog out for the Kerry senior and minor teams respectively on Sunday in Croke Park in the All-Ireland quarter finals. Open Day Plans are well underway for the family open day in Rathbeg in late August. More details to follow. U8 + U6 Football training takes place on Wednesday nights in Rathbeg from 7:00pm to 8:00pm. All players are required to have a gum shield before they can take part in the sessions. U8 + U6 Hurling training takes place on Thursday nights in Rathbeg from 7:00pm to 8:00pm. All players are advised to wear shin guards. (Gum shields are NOT required for hurling) Hurleys and Helmets are supplied on the night. Juvenile Football training U6/8/10 every Wednesdays 7-8pm, players must wear a gum shield. Juvenile Hurling training every Tuesday's & Thursday's. U12- Co. Hurling League Div2 : This was a very exciting game each team giving their all, both teams level at 1-2 a piece at halftime. St.Brendans got a goal right after halftime to take the lead, Rathmore showed great heart and the sliotar ended up in the net. All over the pitch players dug deep and in the end Rathmore deserved their win final result on the night Rathmore 4-4 to St.Brendans 3-3. Well done to the team and trainers on a great result, next game is away to Kilgarvin. U13- Co.League Div2: Well done to the Rathmore team who beat Spa in Rathbeg Sun evening, Rathmore played well throughout and led Rathmore 3-5 to Spa 1-2 at the half. The second half saw Spa come right back into the game after scoring three goals, Rathmore kept the cool and took their scores final score Rathmore 5-7 to Spa 4-5. U16- Co.League Div2: Rathmore were far to strong for the Ardfert side final score, Rathmore 5-09 to Ardfert 0-08. Senior Co.League Div 1: Rathmore 2-09 to Austin Stacks 1-09. Best wishes from all at Rathmore GAA Club to Aidan O' Mahony & Shane Ryan and the Kerry teams that play in Croke Park next Sunday. Well done to all the boys and girls who took part in last weeks Cúl Camps in Rathbeg,a great week was had by all, thanks to Denis Reen, Donal O' Sullivan & all the coaches. Upcoming fixtures: U11 East Kerry League Rathmore v Dr. Crokes, U16 Co. League Div2 Rathmore v Kenmare/ Kilgarvin, Minor Co.League Div1 Rathmore v Glenflesk. SNEEM Sneem GAA Lotto: Numbers drawn Sunday July 28th 2013 were 2, 5,14,22. There was no outright winner of jackpot €2500 €40 consolation prizes went to:- 1. Michael O'Sullivan, North Square, Sneem. 2. Liam Noonan, Rossdohan, Sneem. 3. Vincent Sheehan, Staigue Fort, Castlecove. 4. Gintaute Digimaite, c/o Blue Bull Bar, Sneem Next draw: Sunday 4th August 2013 Venue: Sneem House Time: 10pm sharp Jackpot: €2,650 Sneem GAA Lotto Numbers drawn Sunday July 22nd 2013 were 3 , 8 , 11, 23 . JACKPOT WINNER: Liam Sheehan, Tahilla €8,800 SOUTHERN GAELS Co. Championship: S.Gaels played Inbhear Sceine on Friday evening in Sneem winning on a scoreline of 3.11 to 3.09. The team started well but found it hard to get scores on the board having four wides before Deirdre Corridan got the first score from a free. This was followed by a high ball into the square by I. Sceine which led to their first score of the game. Anna Galvin won a good ball in the middle of the field and found Linda Cronin in space who slotted it over the bar. I. Sceine were winning alot of ball around the middle and despite a block from Cecilia O Sullivan they got in for their second goal. Caroline Kelly won the next kick out and sent in a good ball to Deirdre Corridan who buried the ball into the net. This score seemed to lift her team as Anna Galvin who was beginning to dominate around the middle burst through for a brilliant individual point. All this good work was cancelled out in the next few minutes as I. Sceine put in another high ball that ended up in the back of the net. Points were exchanged by Rebecca Galvin, Deirdre Corridan(2) and Claire O Sullivan and Denise Burns. Half Time Score S. gaels 1.06 I. Sceine 3.03.The second half began with S. Gaels bringing on Julie O Connell and Shannon O Shea who replaced Nicola OSullivan and Rebecca Galvin. I. Sceine continued their dominance kicking four points from play before Julie O Connell got the first point of the second half from p;ay. Caroline Kelly who probably had her best ever club game took the game to I. Sceine playing some great ball into the forward line setting Lisa O Sullivan and Deirdre Corridan up for goals. Fiona Keating replaced Ciara O Sullivan who had played very well in defence. The game was on a knife edge with I. Sceine missing chances and Meabh Daly bringing off some great saves to keep us in the game. Anna Galvin continued her dominance around the middle supplying good ball into Lisa O Sullivan who kicked two more points. The point of the match came from Caroline Kelly who seemed to be going as strong at the end of rhe game as the start. This was a great team performance from a team who had to line out without Megan O Connell who picked up an injury in last weeks game and Emir Kissane. Team: Meabh Daly, Cecilia O Sullivan, Sinead Clifford,Orla Donovan, Caroline Kellly(0.01), Ciara O Sullivan, Clodagh Quinlan, Linda Cronin(0.01), Anna Galvin(0.01), Amy Fitzgerald, Rebecca Galvin(0.01), Nicola o Sullivan, Lisa O Sullivan(1.)02), Deirdre Corridan(2.03), Erin O Driscoll(0.01) subs Julie O Connell(0.01), Shannon O Shea , Fiona Keating.S. Gaels play Na Hathasaigh in the semi final next Friday evening away.Co. League: Southern Gaels 4.15 Dromid Pearses 2.04This was a very close local derby with S. Gaels pulling away only in the last fifteen minutes with Shannon O Shea, Rebecca Galvin(2) and Erin O Driscoll getting the all important goals. SCARTAGLIN COUNTY LEAGUE: Scart 1-08 Beaufort 0-09 There were two more valuable points for the home side after this victory over Beaufort in an evenly contested game played in Scart, in Round 8 of the Credit Union County League on Saturday evening last. Ref: George O Donnell. Scorers for Scart Scart: Pa Rahilly 0-04, Tom Boyle 1-01, Mike Coakley 0-02, Alan Horan 0-01. Scart Team: David Kerins, Declan O Mahony, Damien O Connor, Tom Culloty, Alan Horan, Padraig Reidy(capt), Denis Lenihan, Mike Fitzgearld, Mike Coakley, Sean O Connor, Pa Rahilly, Brendan Rahilly, Conor Cremin, Daniel Murphy, Tom Boyle. Subs: Pa Murphy for Sean O Connor, Kieran Herlihy for Denis Lenihan, Fred Connor for Mike Fitzgerald, Timothy Kerins, Timmy O Connor. Before the game a minute silence was held for the late Denis Horan, Coolnagerragh. LADIES FOOTBALL Na hAghasaigh defeated Scartaglen/Spa 1-9 to 1-8 when the teams met in the Senior Championship at Na Gaeil Pitch Tralee on Friday last. This was a closely contested game and only the minimum margin separated the sides at the final whistle. Scores for Scartaglen/Spa : Margaret Fitzgerald (1-5), Mary Herlihy, Cassandra Buckley and Amy Reidy (0-1) each. On this Friday evening Scartaglen/Spa will play Inbhear Sceine in the same competition. Time and venue for this game not available at time of writing. In the Mary Jo Curran Cup, Scartaglen will play Duagh. SPA MINOR EAST KERRY LEAGUE: Spa 4-12 Kilcummin 1-8. Aaron Farrell, Conor Cronin, Timmy Hussey, Conor Kearney, Mike McCarthy, Dan O'Donoghue, Darragh O'Donoghue, Liam Kearney, Corey Doyle, Lorcan Howe, Aidan Shepherd, Dan O'Sullivan, Cormac Kenneally, Anthony Magnier, Mike Foley. Sub Evan Cronin. U14 East Kerry Championship : Spa A v Glenflesk on Monday 5th Aug in Glenflesk. LOTTO : Numbers drawn 2,23,25,26. No Winner. Lucky dips John Falvey c/o Liebherr,Mary Brosnan Inchabee,Farranfore, Seamus Coffey,TulligNora Murphy 7 Lakeview Villas,Aghadoe. BEREAVEMENTS: Sympathy is extended to the relatives of the following who died recently,Kathleen O'Leary Knockeragh,John Doyle Rathanane,Maureen O'Reilly–Cronin The Park and Markie Leahy Tork Terrace and Late of Muckross all of whom had close links with the life of the Spa-Muckross sporting clubs. John Doyle an iconic figure with Spa GAA Club and Killarney Celtic Soccer club. Recognised as a footballer of special talent John made his debut for Spa at U-I2 level and quickly progressed through the ranks to the senior grade where he proved himself to be a proficient scorer and once in possession he regularly posed danger for the opposition,During his student days in St Brendans College he won an All-Ireland championship ( Hogan Cup) medal in I992 as a member of a side which was captained by the legendary Sheamus Moynihan and which included such household names as Killian Burns,Barry O'Shea,Niall Mangan,Darren Counihan,Denis Doody and Tony McManus, John was also a member of the East Kerry senior panel which won senior county championship titles in I997-98 and 99. He was equally adept at the game of Soccer and turned in many sterling performances with Killarney Celtic. Members past and present from both Spa and Killarney Celtic flanked his remains on his final journey to Aghadoe Cemetery. The name John Doyle will live long in the annals of Spa GAA and Celtic clubs and his premature passing has shocked the members of both clubs.and his quite and easy disposition endeared all who were privileged to have known him during all too short a life on earth. Kathleen oLeary, Knockeragh a huge supporter of Spa GAA and Muckross Rowing club Born in Gortagullane Muckross it was only natural that Kathleen would become immersed in the activities of Muckross Rowing club with which her family had a long and successful association,Her brothers Timmy and Paddy were regular on Muckross crews during the I940-50 era and come regatta day she appeared on shore sporting the yellow rosette of her favourite club,Several members of her own family the O'Leary,s continued the links with Muckross rowing. On moving to Knockeragh after her marriage to Donie O'Leary ( a founder member of Spa GAA club) she continued to support her adopted club and again many members of her family played for Spa in various grades. Markie Leahy Torc Terrace and late of Muckross Markie made a brief appearance with Spa in the minor grade but when the club failed to field in this grade in the mid I95O,s he transferrd to Dr Crokes with whom he turned in many fine displays,Also a talented oarsman he was a member of the Muckross winning crew in I973 a crew which also included another Spa stalwart Pat Casey. Maureen O'Reilly nee Cronin The Park Maureen who spent much of her adult life in a nursing career in Liverpool also had links with the Spa GAA club,Her late brother Mickey Cronin was a member of the side which won East Kerry honours in I948 and 49 and the link has been continued by Mickey's family.. May They Rest In Peace, Spa Golf Outing on Saturday August 10th With just a little over a week to the GAA club,s annual Golf Outing on the Ross course on Saturday August 10th in excess of 30 members have now intimated that they will be competing in this event which will culminate with a meal and social evening in the Ross Clubhouse,As there are still some vacancies names can be submitted to the members of the organising committee Seanie Kelliher,087–6288613,Eileen McGee 086–1522865,,Peggy O'Donoghue 087–9I87I8I, Den Cronin,John Kelly O86–394I769, and Pat Kelliher O64–6633924 ,,All players to be in the Clubhouse at I2:45 for a shot gun start at 1:30pm. BIRTHDAY CELEBRATIONS: Happy Birthday to Micheal Kenneally who celebrated a milestone birthday last weekend. ST MARY'S Lotto: St. Marys lotto draw was held in The Anchor Bar on Sunday night with a jackpot of 7900 euro. There was no winner of the jackpot. Consolation prizes went to: €100 Sean O Shea, Rocky Road. €50 Chris O Shea, St. Josephs Tce,. €20 euro: Mike O Connell, Bridge St,. €20 Donna McCarthy, Bahaghs. €20 Junior Murphy, Carhan Road. Next weeks lotto draw will be held in The Corner House on Tuesday night with a jackpot of €8000. WATERVILLE Waterville and Kilcummin played out an exciting draw in the latest round of the County League Division 1 on Sunday in glorious sunshine at the Waterville Sports field. A 50 yard free kick straight in front of goal from Stephen O'Dwyer ensured that Waterville got the draw from the game that they so richly deserved. Early on it appeared the greater level of experience from the Senior Championship side was going to prove telling as they raced into a 5 point lead after 10 minutes. Points from DJ Fleming and James O'Sullivan were followed up by a goal from Jer Sheehan who was left one on one with the Waterville keeper and he made no mistake to open up a healthy cushion for the visitors. Waterville were very slow to get out of the blocks but that goal seemed to rouse them a bit from their slumber and a point from Niall Fitzgerald and three Stephen O'Dwyer frees brought them right back into it. James O'Sullivan was creating some problems for the Waterville defence at the top of the square and he tapped over a free to open up a two point lead once more. Then a long speculative ball into the square found O'Sullivan who got a flick to it and the ball went into the net to open up that 5 point lead once more and leave Waterville faced with mounting another comeback. Another Waterville free from O'Dwyer was cancelled by the afore mentioned O'Sullivan with a free of his own and this brought the half to a close with Kilcummin ahead 2-04 to 0-05. Waterville were now playing with the breeze in the second half and needed to start the half much better than they did the first. The lively Barry O'Dwyer got things moving wiht a lovely point before Mike O'Shea (a half time substitute) burst onto a ball and rattled over from close range. Alan O'Shea then pointed a close in free immediately after and with the gap now narrowed to two points the home team sensed they had an opportunity. Kieran Murphy settled Kilcummin a bit wiht a fine point which was immediately cancleed by a free from the excellent Stephen O'Dwyer. Greg Gibson was now partnering Paul Galvin at midfield and Waterville were getting some good return from the re-positioning of Seamus O'Sullivan at the top of the square. But Kilcummin were playing in a very determined fashion and kept driving on and keeping the scoreboard ticking voer, Jer Sheehan pointing a fine free. They then had a chance to open up another healthy lead when going for goal but Kevin O'Dwyer made a superb block to deny them and keep his side in it. Stephen O'Dwyer took advantage of that with a fabulous point to reduce the gap to two points after 40 minutes. Another Jer Sheehan free after 45 minutes was then followed by the games crucial moment. Sam O'Dwyer won a long ball inside the oppostion pentaly area and when he turned and shot for goal the Kilcummin defence blocked wiht their legs. Penalty. There was a lot of pressure on the shoulders of Stephen O'Dwyer but he was cool as ice, rolling the ball into the corner with the keeper sent the other way. With ten minutes remaining the game was now level for the first time. A lenghty stoppoage then followed as a player each from both sides was down needing treatment. When play did resume it was the wily James O'Sullivan who had a free kick to push his side ahead with only minutes remaining. Stephen O'Dwyer got an opportunity from a very long distance out but his 55 metre effort tailed just wide. It was, however, a handy marker or him and when he got an opportunity from a smilar angle but a few metres closer, with time as good as up he made no mistake and sailed it over the bar to draw the game and help his team inch ever closer to safety in this division. The final score was Waterville 1-11, Kilcummin, 2-08. Waterville team and scorers. Ciarán Dennehy, Oran Clifford, Kevin O'Dwyer, Alan O'Dwyer, Greg Gibson, Gary Galvin, Niall Fitzgerald (0-01), Paul Galvin, Seamus O'Sullivan, Alan O'Shea, (0-01, 1f) Stephen O'Dwyer (1-07, 6f, 1pen), Odhran O'Mahony, Barry O'Dwyer (0-01), Denis Dwyer, Sam O'Dwyer. Sub used. Mike O'Shea (0-01) Kerryman 
