middle east
{  
    October 30 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/woman/celeb-news/a-serious-look-at-lifes-comedy-26261557.html }
Ciara Dwyer talks to director Damien O'Donnell about the `impossible to pigeonhole' East is East, his first foray into feature filmsDUBLIN director Damien O'Donnell will soon be earning all sorts of accolades for his debut gem of a feature film, East is East. The film, which focuses on a Pakistani family living in the North of England in the Seventies, is about racial tensions, mixed marriages and clashing cultures. Okay, it might sound like a dreary docu-drama, yet it is anything but. It is funny, irreverent, and almost impossible to pigeonhole. George Khan is trying to bring up his children as traditional Muslims. He packs them off to the makeshift mosque to learn Arabic. He tries to arrange their marriages and he insists on keeping the Muslim laws. No pork, the boys are to be circumcised and they are to keep their culture alive. Only one problem: born of an English mother and bred in Salford, the family are more English than Pakistani. When the father is not about, they eat pork. The daughter won't wear a traditional dress, and the sons resist arranged marriages. As the son Tariq tells his parents, ``You can both f**k off if you think I'm getting married to a f**kin' Paki.'' East is East does not denigrate the Islamic way. It is an affectionate portrayal of family life, and it shows the difficulties in being Anglo-Asian prejudice is alive and well. But this is not a serious sociological film. It's warm, humorous and deliciously irreverent. But still, I tell Damien, it's a divil to describe. So how would he do so? ``I would describe it as a serious comedy about the tensions in a mixed-race family,'' O'Donnell says. And then he explains how he is now careful to include the word `comedy'. ``When I was doing interviews in America, a marketing person was eavesdropping. `Would you please at least mention at some stage that it's a comedy?' he said. And that was fair enough. It's really difficult to describe the film. ``When preview audiences saw it they said it was a comedy, a drama, a drama with comedy. When they said it was like The Full Monty and Little Voice, the marketing man did this,'' Damien says, raising his thumbs. ``When you make a film, it's not just a question of the film appealing to people, but of which other films are on at the same time. It's also how you promote and market the film. What I know about the film is that 90 per cent of the people who go and see the film will enjoy it. The hard bit is to persuade people to go and see it in the first place. And that's a completely different world from making a film. The whole marketing of it.'' UCI has such confidence in East is East that it will be offering a refund to any person who doesn't like the film and consequently walks out before the screening ends. I put it to Damien that this is a great marketing ploy. But in the middle of all the marketing mania, someone has forgotten to tell Damien about the UCI money-back guarantee. ``Are they really?'' Damien asks. ``Jesus, that sounds like quite a foolish thing to do. It could revolutionise the film industry.'' Some time later, it's still sinking in. ``That's interesting. I think that's quite sensible. But very few people walk out of films here, we're all too polite. Irish people generally don't walk out of anything. But the money-back guarantee is a very brave thing to do. ``You can't predict what people's tastes are. We've been lucky so far. It seems to have an appeal. But I'm not overly confident. I'll just see how it does.'' Damien is happy with the film festival reactions to East is East so far. But at this stage, he sounds a bit dazed by it all. ``There comes a time when you can't even talk about this film anymore. Your opinion doesn't count because you're seeing it in a completely different way from anyone else.'' Damien was asked to direct East is East on the strength of his award-winning short, 35 Aside, about a boy who doesn't like football and feels left out. ``Quirky'' is the word which seems to crop up all the time in its descriptions. It is an odd film, with strange shots and funny scenes. The East is East team thought he could bring some of his strange vision to their film. Just before East is East began, Damien was offered the opportunity of directing two episodes of Ballykissangel. Without knowing that the film would materialise, he turned the television series down. ``I could have been doing Ballykissangel, but I took a chance. I took a guess. But Ballyk is someone else's work. By the time you're brought on, it has its own house style. Once I turned it down, I didn't have any regrets. I felt I did the right thing for me personally.'' Damien accepted the challenge of directing East is East and then went through a confidence crisis. He wrote to them and told them he didn't think he was able for it. Watching the film, it's obvious that he was well capable. But, like many artists, Damien never seems to be satisfied. ``Did you ever think that you weren't going to make it?'' I ask. ``I keep thinking that,'' he says, rather endearingly, ``but I don't know what else I could do. I don't think I've ever had a real job.'' Since East is East, Damien has been bombarded with film scripts and has just turned one down. ``That would have been next year sorted for me. So now I'm in that limbo zone again.'' Rather refreshingly, Damien does not eat, breathe and sleep film. Instead, he confesses to bad behaviour at film festivals. ``Usually they're on in very nice places. I was at one in Colorado, up the mountains. And you think, well I could spend three days in the cinema seeing all these films some of which are going to be deeply dodgy or I could just hang around cowboy town.'' Keeping that distance makes Damien different. So that's where he gets his quirkiness.  * East is East (15) opens at UCI cinemas in Dublin on November 5, and nationwide on November 18 
