middle east
{ Letters to the Editor 
    September 24 2019 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/letters-to-the-editor-keep-the-music-playing-on-lyric-fm-for-all-our-sakes-38528094.html }
Since Lyric FM first aired in 1999, its music has wafted through our basement centre in the Liberties. Back then the people who used our service came from the island of Ireland. In recent years the people who call come from up to 26 different countries and all sleeping out in parks, doorways and so on throughout the city and beyond. The music creates a peaceful atmosphere for all those who use our service and those who attempt to meet their needs. The benefits are unquantifiable. Language barriers break down as the body language at times acknowledges the composer from a home place miles away. This generally follows on with a struggling attempt to share its history and its special place in the culture of one’s country of birth. Dare I suggest Lyric FM at times defuses potential racism and aggressive behaviour as the music plays on? “Music is the language of the spirit, it opens the secret of life, bringing peace, abolishing strife,” wrote Kahlil Gibran. There is a world out there which rarely reaches the centre of power, where decisions are made. So let’s hope common sense prevails and the wonderful station with informed and dedicated presenters continues to brighten our days. Alice Leahy Bride Road, Dublin  Britain has a history of failure in Middle East Like Dr Munjed Farid Al Qutob (Letters, September 23), I read and agree with Michael Kelly’s splendid article (September 20). Jordan should certainly upgrade its consulate in Dublin to a full embassy, like the one in London. Britain has the unenviable reputation of betraying Palestine in 1948. President Trump’s mistake of recognising Jerusalem as Israel’s capital doesn’t help matters either. Britain also divided Ireland and the Indian subcontinent. Peace in the Middle East can never be achieved without a just Palestinian settlement, namely an independent sovereign state. Britain’s military interference in Middle Eastern affairs – Iraq (illegally in 2003), Libya and Syria in 2011 and posturing against Iran at present – were and are not helpful and downright illegal. In 1941, Britain imposed the Shah on the hapless Iranian people, who booted him out in 1979. He passed away in 1980 instead of facing a firing squad after cowardly abandoning his generals and several ex-prime ministers to that fate. Ireland could become a major diplomatic world player in the near future, promoting peace and democracy throughout the Middle East where Britain failed. For a start, I would like to see the absolute Saudi and Gulf monarchies abolished (and Britain’s).  Dominic Shelmerdine  London Quinn management attackers must be caught The ongoing attacks on management of the reorganised Quinn group of companies in Co Fermanagh and Co Cavan are atrocious, to say the least.  The people involved are either totally deranged or have become so obsessed with some ideology (known only to themselves) that they imagine they are above the laws of two states, nor have any obligations to the citizens of Co Cavan and Co Fermanagh. In short the attack on an innocent man, Kevin Lunney, behoves any person in the area who alleges they are Christian, let alone a democrat, to give any information they have about the attackers to the PNSI and Garda authorities. Declan Foley Berwick, Australia Scottish rugby’s finest fail to scotch the Green Army hopes For many years, Scottish rugby has boasted of the machismo appropriateness of being sponsored by Scotch Beef. After their utter thumping by Ireland in the opening Rugby World Cup match (27-3, for pity’s sake), all they have in common is that once put through the grinder – like every other Scottish sports team these days – they are just mince! Mark Boyle Renfrewshire, Scotland Courts can’t interfere with a parliament not sitting The British government’s legal adviser, Lord Keen, submits that the courts “must not cross the boundaries and intrude upon the business of parliament”. I suspect the Supreme Court judges in the UK, just like the rest of us, understand that in proroguing parliament the British government prevented parliament from doing its business. Thus, the courts would not be “interfering” with the business of parliament but “ensuring” that parliament’s business could be done. QED, M’lud. Alison Hackett Dún Laoghaire, Dublin Irish Independent 
