middle east
{ Brendan O'Connor 
    May 15 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-free-world-cant-just-walk-away-from-iraq-now-26220581.html }
AS THE evidence of the appalling abuse of Iraqi prisoners by Americans has come to light the gloating by opponents of this war has been hard to avoid. Even louder has been the silence from many of the people who previously vociferously supported this war. I see British commentator Tony Parsons was one of the latest to withdraw his support for the war. Many others are wavering AS THE evidence of the appalling abuse of Iraqi prisoners by Americans has come to light the gloating by opponents of this war has been hard to avoid. Even louder has been the silence from many of the people who previously vociferously supported this war. I see British commentator Tony Parsons was one of the latest to withdraw his support for the war. Many others are wavering and some simply don't know what to think. It is quite extraordinary to think that we should stop supporting a war just because it's not quite going our way. The idea of simply walking away from Iraq now is an even more extraordinary notion. It would be selfish and irresponsible and, despite what the peaceniks might try and tell us, it would do no favours for the Iraqi people, who would see their country descend into even further chaos. Yet this is precisely what some of the people of the allegedly humanitarian side of this argument are arguing. Former soldier, now peacenik Edward Horgan, who has been one of the chief spokespeople for the peace movement in this country, wrote in the Irish Times last week that, "At this point it would be a courageous decision to admit defeat, admit the US was wrong, and pull out in June." Horgan called this the "cut and run" option. It is quite frankly amazing that someone who sees himself as having the moral high ground on this issue is advocating that we cut and run, that we abandon the Iraqi people to what would presumably be a bloody and vicious civil war which would ultimately give rise to another non-democratic state in the Middle East. The peacenik's concern for human rights is, at best, selective. They crow and shout about Americans torturing prisoners but somehow they are happy to leave the Iraqi people to a fate that would unquestionably be much worse. If the peace movement think human rights are a problem under Americans (and they are right to some extent), do they think the situation would be much better if the Americans were to "cut and run"? None of which excuses what happened at Abu Ghraib prison. However, there is an important point to be made here. What happened at Abu Ghraib was not the result of a deliberate policy of state-sanctioned torture. Let's not forget that even before the photos coming out of Abu Ghraib became international news the US Government had commissioned an investigation into allegations of abuse by American soldiers. You may argue that the US could have acted faster in light of the concerns expressed by Amnesty but slowness to act is a long way off from state-sanctioned torture. It is all certainly a long way off what the Iraqi people experienced under Saddam Hussein. But then again, we are justified in expecting a bit more from US soldiers. The bottom line is that none of this changes the principles of this war. The principles are these: Firstly, let's disregard the weapons of mass destruction (WMD) red herring. I have always argued that WMD were irrelevant to this war and it was foolish of the Americans to make them such a centrepiece. The WMD excuse was never needed to go into Iraq. What made this war a just war was the ousting of a brutal dictator who was indulging in de facto genocide of certain sections of his people and who ran his country as his own private dominion with rape, murder and terror as his means of governance. It was also an opportunity to introduce some institutions of democracy into a critical part of the world. And America should have made no excuses for what you might call "cultural imperialism" in this situation. Most of the Middle East is run in a way that is abhorrent to us in the West. Most of the Middle East has ignored the progress and enlightenment that has set ordinary people in the West free and the undoubted improvements in the lives of ordinary people since the Middle Ages. The relativism that suggest that we should respect this culture is in fact a form of racism. It suggests that Arabs somehow enjoy tyranny, that they do not strive for the freedom that white people strive for. To suggest that Arabs should be left alone in their brutal feudal societies is to suggest that they are somehow subhuman, that tyranny is all they really understand. It is similar to what people once thought about blacks. That the US motives in all this may be muddy should change nothing either. I believe now what I believed at the outset of all this, that I don't care what the US's stated motives or real motives for going into Iraq are. I still believe that they are doing the right thing, even if by default. You may argue too that George Bush seems like an idiot. Personally, I don't think an idiot gets to be President of the United States. But even at that an idiot doing the right thing is still someone who is doing the right thing. You may abhor the greed of the capitalist but do you abhor the result of that greed which is that he creates jobs for people and stimulates the economy? In the same way, you may abhor George Bush but if he manages to start bringing the Middle East out of the Middle Ages you surely wouldn't abhor that. And while the US may be on a difficult road in Iraq, no person who supports human rights can argue that they are on the wrong road. I also happen to believe the rogue-state theory that some anti-Western countries can offer a safe place for terrorists and can offer them the use of the networks of the state, which allows terrorists to become infinitely more powerful. The unholy alliance of terrorism and the infrastructure of a state is a thought that strikes terror into Western democracies. For all these reasons I believe the notion of taking on Middle Eastern tyranny is the right one. Furthermore this belief does not change just because the going is more difficult than we thought. This belief does not change because Al-Qaeda starts bombing Europe. This belief does not change because some US troops have disgraced themselves and their country. Neither does this belief change because Americans are dying now instead of just Iraqis under Saddam. An Iraqi life is worth just as much as an American life. All of the above - the torture of prisoners, bombing in Europe and the deaths of Americans, and of course Iraqis - have been used as reasons for the Americans to end this war. Primarily they have been cited as reasons by people who didn't believe in this war in the first place, by people who were largely content to leave the Middle East live in its own universe of injustice and tyranny. These are the ones who would appease the likes of Saddam. These are the people who would have us do nothing. They argued against sanctions claiming that the UN were killing millions of children through sanctions on Iraq. But yet they didn't want to do anything else either. They were in truth the useful idiots. And now they want to make themselves useful again by arguing that because America is taking longer to win this war than was previously thought, America should admit defeat, pull out and leave them to fight it out among themselves, which is apparently their culture and the only way they know how to do things. It is a cowardly, racist and unhumanitarian point of view and it is a shame to see the likes of Parsons and others coming round to it. As we focus on US and Middle Eastern corruption, we shouldn't forget how movements like the peace movement can corrupt our thinking too. 
