middle east
{ Praveen Swami 
    March 04 2011 04:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/praveen-swami-the-west-must-wean-itself-off-its-oil-addiction-26710277.html }
BACK in 1976, the man who founded OPEC, the oil cartel that was threatening to bring the world economy to its knees, held out a grim warning to its members: "We are drowning in the Devil's excrement." Now, as panicked oil corporations lobby world leaders for military action to stamp out the spreading flames in the Middle East and north Africa, both oil-producing petro-states, the West need to consider carefully the words of the late Juan Pablo Perez Alfonzo. If the West is to ensure that it doesn't become mired in conflicts across the Middle East, it will need to reduce its dependence on the region's oil. Ending the flow of cash from our wallets to the Middle East will also help build the foundations for a stable, democratic order. For the one thing that binds the crisis isn't Twitter, it's oil. Bahrain and Libya built their future by pumping the seemingly inexhaustible pool of cash from the ground beneath their feet. Tunisia, Egypt and Yemen exported educated, low-wage workers to the petro-states. But prosperity hasn't generated jobs. Half the population in the arc of nations running from Algeria to Pakistan is less than 25 years old, but unemployment is at record levels. In the mid-1970s, Alfonzo told a young political-science student called Terry Lynn Karl that this would happen. "Ten years from now," he warned, "20 years from now, oil will bring us ruin." In a 1999 article, Dr Karl explained why the dream turned sour. Instead of building infrastructure and industries, the petro-states' rulers used their revenues to build patronage networks ensuring the survival of their regimes. This, he argued, was inevitable. Though there was no reason why petro-states could not have used oil revenues wisely, the regimes survived by spreading their unearned loot around. Western leaders have long acknowledged that depending on oil from an unstable part of the world isn't wise. In 2006, George Bush promised that the US would seek to substitute 75pc of its oil imports from the Middle East by 2025. Richard Nixon said the same in 1973. So why hasn't research into alternative fuels been getting the war-footing funding that it needs? The reason is simple: strange as it might sound, the devil's excrement is still cheap. The pain you feel when you fill up your car is because of taxes, not because your money is headed to the Middle East. Consider this: in 1929, an average American would have had to pay 1.49pc of his or her annual income of $84.90 to buy a barrel of crude oil, which then sold for $1.27. Fifty years later, oil prices soared to $31.61. But the annual earnings of the average American had risen even more sharply, to $7,956. So a barrel of oil would cost them just 0.39pc of their earnings -- a quarter of what it did in 1929. The numbers for recent years are even more revealing. In 2008, oil prices soared to $96.91 -- very similar to now. But the average American earned $35,931 that year, which meant a barrel of oil would cost them 0.26pc of their earnings -- well below what it would have in the oil-shocked 1970s. Bar Norway, the world's largest oil exporters are now poorer, relative to the world's great economies, than they were five decades ago. "The conclusion must be," the commentator Amir Taheri wrote in 2006, "that those who buy oil get rich and those who sell it do not." PARALLELS have been drawn between the recent rebellions and the fall of the Soviet Union. A more useful analogy, though, is 1848, which gave birth to modern Europe -- but it took a century and two world wars for it to come to pass. In the Middle East, too, there will be great strife before a new order emerges. Meanwhile, the West must make decisions. It could continue to prop up the oil order and risk being sucked into crisis after crisis. The alternative, ending our addiction to oil, involves pain -- but will insulate the West from the looming problems in the region and in the long run allow the emergence of a new, stable order. The uprisings in the Middle East have made a new beginning possible. The West can't afford not to take the chance. (© Daily Telegraph, London) Irish Independent 
