middle east
{ Praveen Swami 
    March 09 2011 04:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/why-oil-is-a-burning-issue-for-worlds-superpowers-26711845.html }
'In the beginning," wrote Hubertus van Mook in a rueful commentary soon after Japanese forces evicted him from his position as lieutenant-governor of the Dutch East Indies, "it was difficult to piece together this whole connected movement from the apparently disconnected moves." Back in 1941, a Japanese carrier fleet tore across the oceans to what is now Indonesia, seeking control of what was then the fourth-largest oil-producing state in the world. If the shots fired in Libya are not to prove the first exchanges in a future world war, now is a good time for world leaders to consider Mr Mook's story, and to start making sense of "the whole connected movement" of events in the Middle East. The big picture is this: the world's great powers are competing for an ever-diminishing pool of oil, making the prospect of potentially catastrophic conflicts pitting them against each other ever more likely. Late last week, the geostrategic implications of the still-unfolding crisis in the Middle East began to reveal themselves, as China positioned the advanced missile frigate Xuzhou off the eastern coast of Libya. The ship, and the special forces personnel it carried, were there to make sure that the estimated 30,000 Chinese workers in Libya were safely evacuated, in the face of a rash of attacks on Beijing-owned oil facilities. Ji Mingkui, a professor at China's national defence university, has predicted that more such deployments will take place in the future "to protect our national interests overseas". In the next year alone, China will pump e65bn into aircraft carriers, battleships, expanded airlift capabilities and missile systems capable of targeting US carrier fleets deep in the western Pacific -- all part of a gigantic military modernisation programme that will allow the country to defend its sources of energy, and to protect the sea lanes that carry the fuel back home. None of this is happening because there is a shortage of oil -- strange as that may sound at a time when we're paying upwards of 150c a litre for petrol. Even if protracted strife in Libya shut its production indefinitely, Saudi Arabia alone could more than make up for it. The Kingdom has spare capacity of 3.5 million barrels a day.. Indeed, Saudi promises to make up for lost production have led oil prices to fall back from a post-Libyan crisis peak of $120 a barrel to about $105. In addition, the International Energy Agency (IEA) has substantial strategic reserves, as do Western governments. Last week, Nobuo Tanaka, the IEA's director, assured the world "we can release two million barrels per day for two years. We don't really have to worry too much". Mr Tanaka is right: there's no immediate cause for panic. But in the longer term, there is plenty of reason for China -- and everyone else -- to be concerned. Five nations now account for more than half the world's proven reserves (that is, oil known to exist but yet to be extracted): Saudi Arabia with 19.8pc, followed by Iran with 10.3pc, Iraq with 8.6pc, Kuwait with 7.6pc and the United Arab Emirates with 7.3pc. Oil producers outside the Middle East are running out of oil fast. Russia will run out of oil by around 2020, the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security has estimated. Nigeria, whose output today helps stabilise prices and meet significant parts of global demand, will also run dry by 2025 or so. That means that the Middle East will, in the not too distant future, be the world's principal source of oil. There might be some who think that vigorous foreign military intervention could secure Middle East oil even if the countries where it is located descend into chaos. The case of Iraq, though, should dispel such happy assumptions. For China, this scenario is a real cause for concern. Oil has played a key role in powering the 9pc growth its economy has seen every year for the past two decades. Chinese oil companies have responded by investing in oil production across the globe, from Angola and Sudan to Kazakhstan. In 2006, though, the total overseas production by Chinese-owned firms amounted to just 0.675 mbd -- less than 19pc of its imports. That means China continues to remain reliant on Middle Eastern oil, with half its imports coming from Saudi Arabia and Iran alone. Like the rest of the world, China will become even more dependent in the future. In the best scenario, the West and China could collaborate to manage the diminishing pool of Middle East oil, apportioning resources equitably and jointly guaranteeing security. There are some reasons for optimism. The missile frigate that appeared in the Mediterranean last week was drawn from a multinational fleet positioned in the Indian Ocean to act against pirates -- a common threat to a swath of western and eastern states with interests in the region's trade lanes. Best-case outcomes, though, aren't inevitable. China's flexing of its muscles in the South China Sea, driven by the desire to control gas and oilfields, has caused friction throughout the region. Like Japan in the build-up to the Second World War, China is ever more dependent for its future growth on resources located in distant countries -- countries, moreover, where its competitors have long had a dominant role. In not dissimilar circumstances, the historian Howard Dick has noted, Japan's "military helped to create an environment in which the heroic dream of a southern empire became acceptable and, in the face of domestic and international events, harder and harder for the pragmatists in government to resist". It isn't as if a new world war is around the corner: nuclear weapons have raised the costs of wars between great powers to unacceptable levels, and China has a great deal to lose from seeking to disrupt the global order. But Mr Mook's story warns us that failing to pay close attention to the strategic environment we live in is a dangerous business. It isn't a mistake the world can afford to repeat. (© Daily Telegraph, London) Irish Independent 
