middle east
{  
    December 19 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/middle-east/bush-makes-first-visit-to-middle-east-in-peace-push-26339775.html }
President Bush will try to nurture fragile Middle East peace talks with his first trip to Israel and the West Bank next month as part of a nine-day swing through the region. Mr Bush also will visit Kuwait, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Egypt during the trip beginning on January 8 Egypt is the only country on the itinerary that Mr Bush has visited before. While Middle East peacemaking has been on the back burner during most of Bush's presidency, his administration hosted a high-stakes conference last month in Annapolis, Maryland, to encourage talks between Israel and the Palestinians on an independent Palestinian homeland. Role He left energised about helping the Palestinians and Israelis find a way to live peacefully as neighbours and writing a chapter for himself in the book of Middle East diplomacy. White House press secretary Dana Perino said Mr Bush currently is scheduled to have bilateral sessions, not a three-way meeting, with Israeli and Palestinian leaders. She said Mr Bush's role will be to pull the Israeli and Palestinian leaders together, "just like he did in Annapolis". The White House said the trip also will be an opportunity to reaffirm the United States' commitment to the security of allies in the Middle East, especially with Gulf nations, and work with them to combat terrorism and extremism. But Mr Bush faces a tough task in the Middle East with Israel stepping up its attacks on Palestinian militants in recent months. Yesterday, Israel launched an aerial assault on deadly rocket squads in the Gaza Strip, killing 12 militants, including the top commander of the radical Islamic Jihad group and four others who were struck as they exited a mosque after morning prayers. Defence Minister Ehud Barak said Israel would not let up in its offensive in Gaza, but warned that militants' threats of revenge must be taken seriously. For months, Israel has been carrying out airstrikes and limited ground incursions in response to near-daily rocket attacks on southern Israeli communities. Islamic Jihad, a small violent group with ties to Iran, has been responsible for most of the rocket fire. Meeting party members in Jerusalem late last night, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert pledged to keep up the pressure. "We will continue to seek out the heads of the terror organisations," he said. "We will get all those who are responsible for firing rockets. The terror organisations feel this and will feel this in full force in the near future." Ismail Haniyeh, head of the Hamas government in Gaza, told an Israeli TV reporter that he is prepared to negotiate an end to the rocket attacks and Israeli attacks. Sami Abu-Zuhri, a Hamas spokesman, linked the Israeli attacks with Monday's donors' conference in Paris, at which aid was pledged for the Palestinian Authority while effectively freezing out his group. 
