middle east
{  
    December 29 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/middle-east-group-wanted-complete-control-of-oil-project-26341383.html }
PLANS to build a massive oil refinery in Co Wexford were discussed by the minister for transport, a Middle East arms merchant and a member of the House of Lords. But notes from the time appear to dismiss the idea of the proposed refinery at Hook Head, as the exact location was based more on the knowledge of Hook Head as a yachting destination rather than any value to oil production. In November 1976, Lord Randal Dunsany wrote to Taoiseach Liam Cosgrave saying two unnamed Arab groups, one in Saudi Arabia and another in the Gulf, were interested in setting up the refinery in Ireland and selling the oil on to Europe. Having failed to establish the refinery in Bordeaux, the Arabs were attracted to Ireland, which "enjoyed a lot of goodwill in the Middle East based on our revolutionary and anti-colonial background". Blackmail A note from a meeting between Transport and Power Minister Tom Fitzpatrick and the Arab representatives said the oil interests saw the Irish government as not being as open to blackmail as other governments. Lord Dunsany said 90pc of the money for the project would be Arab with the rest Irish, operating under a company registered in Ireland with Irish directors. But overall control would rest with the Middle East. If the government did not have the money for 10pc investment, Lord Dunsany said it could be raised in the private sector. "The advantage of the Hook Head is accessibility from the Cape route, accessibility to Europe and easy security," he wrote. "I have noticed even in violent storms the water on entering the haven is particularity calm." The information from Lord Dunsany originated with Arnold Breen, a relation of former TD Dan Breen, who was an arms merchant in the Middle East. In January 1977, Mr Fitzpatrick and JW Graham, of the Department of Transport, and Power met with Lord Dunsany and Mr Breen where it emerged that the Arabs expected the Irish government to pay for an initial feasibility study into the project. Investment While there would be Irish investment of 10pc, "the essential point, however, was that there must be full and complete Arabian control of the new refinery, though such control could be exercised through Irish directors", said a memo on the meeting from Mr Graham. Mr Breen would not give the names of investment amounts of the interests but said there were "unlimited supplies of money available which he classified as 'Royal Money'". "Their interest in a refinery site at the Hook seemed derived primarily from Lord Dunsany's close knowledge of the area as a yachtsman," said the memo. The meeting between Mr Fitzpatrick and the Middle East representatives caused some disquiet within the cabinet, with Industry and Commerce Minister Justin Keating writing to the transport minister saying "responsibility for oil refineries is in my province". "There are very important issues involved in this question of oil refineries and nothing should be done which might put the thing off the rails," wrote Mr Keating. 
