middle east
{ Sarah McCabe 
    October 17 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/how-a-small-engineering-company-from-ireland-conquered-the-middle-east-29667395.html }
MICHAEL Looby looks happy. Relaxed, chatty and sporting a light tan, this is a man who clearly likes his lifestyle. As he describes life in Bahrain, where he relocated a year and a half ago, it's clear why – the air is clear, the sun is shining and the contracts flow fast and free. Founded in Ireland in 1997 by a young Looby and business partner John Byrne, his company now employs 90 people and is one of the most successful boutique engineering consultancies in the Middle East, working primarily on the design of infrastructure projects. Today it begins the hunt for another 50 staff. What started life as a two-man indigenous business now generates 70pc of its revenues overseas, much of it from the Middle East. The company's growth story is a fascinating insight into the perils of breaking into this most complex of regions. "It's a fantastic market," says an upbeat Looby. "The volume of trade is huge, the infrastructure spend is huge and the commercial opportunities are huge. These governments enjoy massive revenues from oil and gas but their infrastructure is still very underdeveloped – an obvious opportunity for us – and that's coupled with a real political desire to improve the lives of citizens in the wake of the Arab Spring." Yet it's clear that doing business in this part of the world will be nothing short of a culture shock for a new entrant from Ireland. Looby outlines huge cultural differences – everything from the absence of a formal procurement system to the lack of women on the streets. "On my first night in Libya I felt like I was lucky to be still alive! It felt like the whole world was staring at me and it was very disconcerting. But it's all about common sense – just be aware that you are in an Arabic country. He is dismissive of the "cultural training" pushed by so many multinationals: "It's bull. At the end of the day, you just need to show respect." The firm diversified at just the right time, entering foreign markets a couple of years before the collapse of the Celtic Tiger. Its first overseas job was in the UK and then Libya in 2007. This gave it a buffer from the worst of the recession. "I can't claim I predicted the Celtic Tiger" says Looby. "But we were definitely motivated by the need to slow down, protect ourselves and diversify. We were already overseas, past the start-up phase and growing revenues, when Ireland went over a cliff." Completed projects include the design of a large port in Jordan and a 40km tunnel in Abu Dhabi – the equivalent of a tunnel running from Dublin Airport to Bray. Fees range from about €200,000 to €2m. Qatar and the UAE have provided the biggest returns. "Those countries really want to provide a high standard of infrastructure, more Western-aligned, so they are willing to pay more for it and employ Western contractors. It's a political thing really – less traditionalist, more tourist-orientated. Whereas Saudi Arabia is definitely the most difficult. It is very cost-driven and culturally quite different. It's also serviced by global players – Koreans, Chinesee, US, Russians, Iraqis – so is hugely competitive." They are also active in Iraq, though that country is, Looby says, "a different ballgame". "You need full security, bullet proof vests and so on. We work in Southern Iraq, around Bazrah, which is relatively okay. But up north, things get dangerous. Iraq is a hugely interesting market as they have such fantastic natural resources, but we are happy to wait a couple of years until things get safer." He says the start-up costs required by the Middle East should not be underestimated. "They are definitely higher than you'd expect. Your team may not get paid for a full year after a project begins, so you have to be able to absorb that. And in reality it takes two years to get established – one year winning projects, another year completing them. Only then do you know the market enough to make a judgment. You can't bet the farm – you need to be able to write off two years of costs if it doesn't work, and be prepared to walk away." He has obviously learned the importance of tight financial management the hard way. "You need to know your finances inside out before you enter a foreign market – your senior people need to all be very financially literate, regardless of whether they are from a finance background or not. Financial planning was simple during the Celtic Tiger – we sent out invoices every month and got paid – but now everything is planned in absolutely meticulous detail." The experience was clearly a steep learning curve, which he overcame by forging partnerships with local firms. "In Libya, our first entry point, I literally looked up addresses of engineering consultants in the phone book – but houses there have no numbers on their front, so that fell flat! Then I was sitting in a coffee shop and saw a guy with blueprints – he turned out to be an architect, who introduced me to the guys who eventually became our local partners and were hugely helpful in drumming up business." At home, finding staff is one of the firm's biggest challenges. It is a good time to be an engineer in Ireland, with some big jobs announcements of late. However, Looby says there is a real shortage of talent. "We've put an awful lot of investment into recruitment" he says. "We've specifically built our website not just to impress clients but to impress potential recruits too. And we are starting to go directly to universities to get our face in front of students. "Our business model is all about specialism, a premium service, high value. We're not the GP – we're the hospital consultant. That's not an attempt to be arrogant, it's just what is commercially viable. But that does narrow who we can hire – we have to be picky. Interested applicants must be prepared to travel. Half of the 50 being recruited will work overseas, though the firm is still headquartered in Dublin and has offices in Cork, Galway and Belfast. Looby says that nothing compares to having a senior person physically living in the foreign market they are doing a deal in, which is why he took the leap early last year. "Bahrain might not be for everyone but I love it – it's hot, the lifestyle is very outdoorsy, the people are friendly. The Arab culture is also more polite – but that means they don't say what they are thinking, which you have to be aware of when doing deals." But not everything is easy. "Women are not allowed to drive in parts of the Middle East and my wife found that very difficult, very oppressive – we couldn't live in those places." He is optimistic about the health of the civil engineering industry at home, which was decimated by the sudden drop off in construction. "Water and wind are the big opportunities" he says; the company acquired a 100-year-old water specialist PH McCarthy last year to expand that side of its business. "But more traditional infrastructure projects are also returning too. Turnover at our Leinster business has finally increased, after five years of decline. Our guys in Dublin are busy – and I'm seeing drawings on desks that I haven't seen for five years." Indo Business 
