middle east
{ By DAMIAN WHITWORTH in  Washington 
    October 13 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/first-lady-jeered-by-new-york-jews-for-middle-east-u-turn-26106742.html }
THE TURMOIL in the Middle East has re-ignited the New  York Senate race after Hillary Clinton was jeered and denounced as a ``hypocrite'' while addressing a pro-Israel  rally. The First Lady, who appeared to be on course for victory, once again finds her record on Israel under fire from many among New York's powerful Jewish population as the future of the Middle East looks set to dominate the final weeks of the election. Mrs Clinton had to shout to make herself heard as she was booed by members of the 10,000-strong crowd in Manhattan. ``I believe it is imperative that we stand clearly with Israel and we stand in support of the President who continues his efforts to end the violence in the Middle East,'' she said. She reiterated her differences with her husband by attacking America's failure to veto a UN Security Council resolution chastising Israel. She said the decision to abstain was ``shameful and ignores the reality of the situation in the Middle East. Israel must always be able to protect its citizens and put an end to violence,'' she said. But she was told to ``Go kiss Arafat's wife,'' a reference to Mrs Clinton's embrace of Suha Arafat after she had given a controversial speech last year. That act, and Mrs Clinton's previous call for a Palestinian state, leaves many Jews unconvinced by the pro-Israel stand she has adopted since deciding to run for the Senate. Rick Lazio, her Republican opponent, was given a warmer reception at the rally as he charged that the Clinton Administration ``leaves Israel in the lurch. I ask President Clinton: Is this any way to treat a friend?'' Mr Lazio has sought to capitalise on the way Mrs Clinton has changed her tune on the Middle East. ``I'd not support a call for a Palestinian state. My record is one of 100pc consistency for security of the state of Israel and for our alliance,'' he said in their most recent debate. Mrs Clinton tried to brush off her reception at the rally by saying that ``passions are running very high''. But Dov Hikud, a Brooklyn assemblyman who has been assiduously courted by Mrs Clinton because of his sway over tens of thousands of New York's orthodox Jews, indicated that Mrs Clinton's previous stands on Israel could be an important problem. ``The old baggage from the past is there. It's hard for people to get it out of their minds,'' he said. One woman in the crowd expressed the feelings of many. ``A zebra doesn't change her stripes and I don't trust her,'' she said. ``This is an activist crowd that resents very much her position on the Palestinian state and her kissing Arafat's wife,'' said Stephen Hochberg, a law professor who was at Yale with Mrs Clinton. Mrs Clinton was clear in trying to state her position. ``The person we must call on to be responsible today to end the violence is Chairman Arafat,'' she said. ``I renew my call for him to do everything in his power to end the violence and to enter into a ceasefire.'' Mrs Clinton, who is running for US senator from New York state, was one of several community leaders and local elected officials who declared their support for Israel and condemned Mr Arafat at the rally. Her remarks were greeted with shouts of: ``Tell your husband, tell your husband,'' because the United States, which has been trying to broker a final peace deal between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, abstained in the UN vote and did not exercise its veto, allowing the resolution to go into force. After her speech, Mrs Clinton told reporters: ``Look, this is a very dangerous and perilous time, and emotions and feelings and passions are running very high.'' Mr Lazio told the crowd: ``I say to the Clinton Administration, is this any way to treat a friend?'' he asked, eliciting some cries of ``No!'' Nobel Peace Prize laureate Eli Wiesel, a survivor of the Second World War Nazi concentration camps, told the rally: ``We are here to affirm our profound solidarity with Israel.'' ( The Times, London) 
