middle east
{ Tim Reid in Washington 
    June 29 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/bush-confident-that-rice-right-for-the-middle-east-25945036.html }
FOR PRESIDENT Bush's "road map" to have any chance of success, even the most  sceptical Israelis and Palestinians concede that muscular and prolonged commitment  from the White House is crucial. Mr Bush could have sent no stronger signal that he is determined to forge peace in the Middle East than giving Condoleezza Rice, his National Security Adviser, the pivotal role of White House envoy. There is no other member of the Administration, not even vice-president Dick Cheney, who is closer to Mr Bush, or whose advice on foreign policy he values more. She has an enormously influential role in shaping and guiding his international agenda, and the Israelis and the Palestinians, including the various Palestinian terrorist groups, know this. Her appointment has dramatically altered the dynamic between the Middle East protagonists and Washington. Although Mr Bush also announced a Middle East negotiation role for Colin Powell, nobody doubts that, with Dr Rice's involvement, this is a drive for peace coming directly from the Oval Office. The subtle sidelining of General Powell and the State Department was a necessary ingredient in this new dynamic. The Israelis have always had a direct line to the White House and have largely ignored the State Department. The crucial difference that Dr Rice's intervention has made is with the Palestinians. They recognise Mr Bush's open support for Mahmoud Abbas as the key to success in forcing significant concessions from Israel. Traditionally, the Palestinians have courted the State Department. Now they are scrambling to build their own White House connections. When Mr Bush announced the Powell-Rice partnership in Aqaba, his words were carefully weighted. Both General Powell and Dr Rice, he said, would make the Middle East their "highest priority", but Dr Rice was to be "my personal representative". It was impossible for him to overtly undermine General Powell, officially the Administration's senior foreign policy adviser, but it was clear which of the two was being given the clout. Nothing has demonstrated this more graphically than the events of the past week. The ingredients for a deal on partial Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip, and a ceasefire by Palestinian groups, were available a week ago, when General Powell met both sides. But, in a measure of how much the parties now recognise that the only man worth dealing with in Washington is Mr Bush, they postponed the announcements of any substantive progress until the arrival of Dr Rice. Her relationship with her cabinet colleagues has also made her intervention possible. Bill Clinton wanted to make Sandy Berger, his national security adviser, his Middle East envoy. He did not dare in case it triggered the resignation of Madeleine Albright, his Secretary of State. But Dr Rice has stayed above the feuds of the Bush cabinet, most notably between General Powell and defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld. She enjoys a good relationship with General Powell, who once said that he regarded her as a "daughter". This has meant that her appointment has not produced an ugly and public split with a man who would not allow any other administration official to undercut his authority so dramatically. In books on the Bush White House by journalist Bob Woodward and David Frum, a former Bush speechwriter, it is clear that Dr Rice is the Cabinet's centre of gravity around whom policy and personal feuds swirl. When needed, she settles them. "That's the Rice influence there, you know," Mr Bush told Mr Woodward, referring to a White House meeting during the Afghanistan campaign when he reined in his impatience. "Who says she isn't powerful?" (©The Times, London) 
