middle east
{ KIERAN MCCARTHy 
    March 03 2015 07:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/sport/gaa/strong-kerry-flavour-at-gaa-world-games-31038400.html }
THREE GAA players from the greater Killarney area are intent on leaving their mark on the inaugural GAA World Games in Abu Dhabi this weekend. Frank McCarthy (Fossa) and Cian Tobin (Spa) have both been selected on the Middle East GAA men's team for this historic event in the United Arab Emirates while Katie Warren (Killarney Legion) has made the Middle East ladies' team to give the first-ever GAA World Games a distinct Killarney flavour. While eight teams (four men and four women) will play in the International World Cup, 20 teams - from Asia, Australasia, Canada, Europe, New York, North America and the Middle East - will battle it out for the GAA World Cup, with McCarthy, Tobin and Warren all setting their sights on the big prize, Former Fossa footballer McCarthy (28), who has worked in the Middle East for the past 20 months in sales and business development with Enterprise Ireland and RCSI, is based in Bahrain and plays his club football with the Arabian Celts. In the trial process used to select the 24 players for the two men's Middle East teams, McCarthy was the only player from his club to be selected on Middle East 1, a huge honour for him and the Arabian Celts, and he joins up with former Kerry minor footballer Cian Tobin (who plays his club football in Abu Dhabi). Three more Arabian Celts were picked on Middle East 2, including Martin Scannell who played with Duagh for a spell. "Gaelic football is a big thing out here. It's hard to explain to anyone at home because people assume the standard is poor, but it's as good here as it is in most counties at home," McCarthy explained. "I came out here with no expectations about the GAA. For me the GAA was the heart of the community back home, but in no way did I expect it to be so huge out here. Without it, the Irish community would be lost. "In the Middle East everything is community based. When I first got here I knew no one. Either you have a community or a close group of friends or you have no one. In hindsight joining the GAA out here was the best decision I ever made. "People from all ages come and play, socialise and act like a community, almost like a home away from home.  "The GAA scene out here is a big thing and the standard varies from the basic beginner to inter-county players. There are teams in almost every country - Kuwait, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Qatar and the UAE which is made up of Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Al Ain. "For example, in the Bahrian tournament last October there were 56 teams of 12 playing in one tournament." McCarthy (28) also explained that there are championships and leagues in the Middle East GAA scene with competitions at senior, intermediate and junior standards. The Middle East 1 team has been drawn against Middle East 2, Canada 1 and Canada 2 in the group stages that throw in on Friday morning with the knock-out games and finals to be held on Saturday, as the GAA goes global, and it's fitting that All-Ireland champions Kerry will play a big part on the field. Each squad has 12 players with nine on the pitch and three rolling subs. The games are nine minutes a side with a two-minute break at half time. Knockout games are 12 minutes a side and the finals are 15 minutes a side with a three-minute break at half-time. Kerryman 
