middle east
{  
    September 09 2018 05:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/eddie-rockets-cooks-up-middle-east-expansion-37296343.html }
Fast-food chain Eddie Rocket's  is planning to expand into the Middle East after its first German outlet opens next month. The wholly-owned Irish company has more than 50 restaurants dotted across Ireland and will now seek to expand its 'Rocket's' franchise arm. The company's secondary brand is targeted  at millennials and aims to fill the gap between fast food and casual dining. Over the next five years, 20 Rocket's outlets will be opened in various transport hubs such as airports, train stations and bus shelters across Germany. The European expansion was the result of a long-term agreement with contract food business Elior Group. Rocket's business development officer Tobias Lukaschek told the Sunday Independent that the move will be the "first of many if things go well". "Of course we're looking to get into other European continental countries as well; likewise we're looking at expansion outside of Europe too," he said. "The Middle East is looking promising also, so that's where we would see the company as well. The likes of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, the UAE, all of those are certainly interesting for us. "Once we get to Germany then we're in the centre of Europe and it's not too far from Austria, Switzerland, to France, to Spain and so on." Lukaschek said that expansion into the Middle East is not dependent on further deals in Europe. He said that both expansions could happen simultaneously, provided the right franchise partner comes along. "Having said that, Elior is globally active and we have found the partnership to be incredibly fruitful. The best thing we could imagine would be to expand and grow with them Europe-wide and even globally," he said. "The lion's share of the business is the Eddie Rocket's brand, it is the breadwinner. The Rocket's brand is probably the one with the strongest growth opportunity. As for now, it's certainly a growth vehicle for us, where we see opportunity and demand." Despite travelling thousands of kilometres to its new branch in Allgau, south-west of Munich, none of the burgers will be frozen. The company has agreed a new supply chain deal with Irish meat supplier Kepak to ensure it can market fresh Irish beef as its unique selling point.  After it is produced in Cork, the meat is then vacuum-packed and shipped to a warehouse in Germany. Rocket's will get around 15 days of shelf-life out of the Irish meat. The company's Rocket's brand is targeted at those born in the 1980s up to the 2000s and aims to move away from the appearance of a chain restaurant, with stripped-back aesthetic design throughout. Last year, parent group Rocket's Restaurants Ltd, which was set up by Niall Fortune 29 years ago, reported a turnover of €70m. Sunday Indo Business 
