middle east
{ Tim Reid in Georgia 
    June 08 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/summit-boost-for-mideast-peace-attempt-25909745.html }
US President Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair will seek to inject  new momentum today into an ambitious plan to promote democracy across the Middle  East, when they meet at the G8 summit of world leaders in the US. Buoyed by the expected passage of a UN resolution endorsing the terms for the June 30 transfer of authority to the interim government in Baghdad, the two men will use the new international unity on Iraq to pursue the broader goal of transforming the Middle East. Mr Bush, who will have a one-to-one meeting with Mr Blair this morning, said last night that the UN resolution would be a "catalyst for change in the broader Middle East and is an important part in winning the War on Terror." Mr Bush will meet a series of Arab leaders today, including the new Iraqi President, Ghazi al-Yawer, at the G8 summit on Sea Island, Georgia. He will emphasise that the new UN resolution on Iraq clears the way for the Arab and Western worlds to focus on his most ambitious foreign policy goal. Condoleezza Rice, Mr Bush's National Security Adviser, said that after today's meetings with the leaders of Afghanistan, Bahrain, Jordan, Tunisia, Turkey and Yemen, she expected a "very strong statement, a very strong affirmation of the need for reform and change in the Middle East." The Broader Middle East and North Africa Initiative, which calls for increased engagement by the West to promote democracy, women's rights, education, political reform, free markets and investment, has also given Mr Blair and other European leaders the chance to refocus Washington's attention on the Middle East peace process. When a version of the democratic reform proposals was unveiled in February it provoked an outcry from Arab governments. Many complained that they had not been consulted, criticised Mr Bush's approach as imperialistic and said that its failure to address the Israeli-Palestinian conflict rendered it unacceptable. Both Egypt and Saudi Arabia, key US allies in the Middle East, have refused to attend the summit or to support the plan, which seriously undermines its chances for success. However, in a sign of the Bush Administration's more flexible approach to its foreign policy, it bowed this week to demands from Mr Blair, and the leaders of other Europeans and Arab nations, to emphasise in the document the need to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. (© The Times, London) 
