middle east
{ Richard Beeston 
    February 08 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/middle-easts-odd-couple-can-do-a-deal-25998594.html }
IN THE bright sunshine of the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, Mahmoud Abbas and Ariel Sharon will forge one of the most unlikely partnerships in Middle East politics. To achieve peace, the avuncular Palestinian leader and his hawkish Israeli counterpart will have to put aside a lifetime of conflict, and establish trust between their warring nations through personal example. Doubtless they will parade before the media like old friends - smiling, shaking hands and pledging to resolve years of violence. Mr Sharon, a former paratrooper and tough, populist politician, can turn on the charm when he needs to. Mr Abbas, a scholarly, moderate figure, is invariably courteous and dignified. But Mr Sharon is best remembered by Palestinians as a fighter who led some of the bloodiest operations against them. He was responsible for building Jewish settlements on their land. His military record included driving Mr Abbas and his fellow PLO members out of Lebanon in 1982. Mr Abbas, who received part of his training in the Soviet Union, was a founder member of Fatah, the main Palestinian political movement which for decades sought the destruction of the State of Israel. He wrote a book claiming that fewer than one million Jews died in the Holocaust. He has also championed the right of return of all Palestinian refugees to their homeland, the issue that derailed the Camp David talks five years ago. The Middle East's "odd couple" do have some things in common. Both men were born in British-mandate Palestine. Both have lost their eldest sons. Both are now threatened by extremists in their own communities. Crucially, both have reached a point in their lives - Mr Sharon is 76 and Mr Abbas 69 - where this may be their last chance to make history and conclude a peace agreement between their peoples. If successful the rewards will be huge. Already violence between the two communities has fallen significantly. Polls show that Israelis and Palestinians favour talks. The Bush Administration is finally engaged in diplomatic peace efforts, and the world community stands ready to invest generously to help the devastated economies in the Holy Land. If they can pull it off, the names Sharon and Abbas would go down in history for the best of reasons. But tempering the mood of optimism and expectation are the bitter lessons of the past; dozens of previous efforts to achieve Middle East peace, by some of the world's most brilliant leaders and diplomats, have all failed. For half a century in the Middle East, pessimism has been the smart call. As a cemetery of false hopes, the Palestinian/Israeli conflict has no rival. But, after four years of violence, intifada, and retribution, the stars in the firmament of peace suddenly are more favourably aligned than for many years, including even 2000, when there was the Camp David peace marathon between Yasser Arafat and Ehud Barak. Suddenly, circumstances and individuals have been reshuffled, in Ramallah, in Jerusalem and in Washington. A year ago, the mix promised more of the dispiriting same. Today, if not a comprehensive settlement, then at least a serious and realistic negotiation towards such a settlement, seems within reach. Yasser Arafat has gone. As long as he was Palestinian leader, the refusal of the Bush administration to have any truck with him meant the "peace process," the "road map" - call it what you will - was a dead letter. Now the outside power that above all can create the conditions for a deal has no excuse to stand aside. The same goes for Europe. After the estrangement over Iraq, Europe and the US are searching for common ground. Where better than the Middle East, where Tony Blair and others have been pressing Washington for years? For their part, Palestinians are exhausted by an intifada that has only worsened their lot, and Israelis are aware that without a two-state solution they will be a minority in their own country. In short, both sides are ready for a new start. Encouragingly, Condoleezza Rice has wasted no time in travelling to the region. Today's summit between Ariel Sharon and Mahmoud Abbas has an encouragingly practical agenda, reportedly centred on a ceasefire that would end the intifada. George Bush is a crucial piece in the new equation. The salons of Europe may still sneer at him but the 43rd President sees himself as a "transformational" figure. And, having unarguably transformed Iraq (though with consequences that remain to be seen), why not now relations between Israelis and Palestinians? He has no further elections, only his legacy, to worry about. His determination is not in doubt. So might not a man described as the most pro-Israeli President in recent times defy every prior expectation, and move with genuine even-handedness? 
