middle east
{  
    July 28 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/is-israel-dictating-us-mid-east-policy-26376781.html }
The US position on the war in the Middle East as stated by Condolezza Rice is akin to saying "keep killing until there is peace". In essence, Israel has been given US approval to continue the slaughter of civilians and the massive destruction of civilian infrastructure. Where exactly is American policy in the Middle East leading? Is US policy in the region being dictated by th The US position on the war in the Middle East as stated by Condolezza Rice is akin to saying "keep killing until there is peace". In essence, Israel has been given US approval to continue the slaughter of civilians and the massive destruction of civilian infrastructure. Where exactly is American policy in the Middle East leading? Is US policy in the region being dictated by the Israeli lobby, as argued by John J. Mearsheimer and Stephen M. Walt recently in the London Review of Books? If this is the case, how can the US hope to play honest broker in talks about a settlement? Do they really want a durable peace, for perhaps there are more sinister reasons behind US policy. Perhaps their biggest fear in the Middle East is that which they profess to champion: democracy. Democracy in Palestine thrust the radical Hamas to power. Democracy in Saudi Arabia could end the regime that is one of America's favourite allies. And if any of this is true, what can be done about it? Surely the only legitimate goal is to work towards long term peace, security, and prosperity for all in the region. The current US administration has projected American power after its own fashion. The results are not very pretty. The Iranian crisis has deepened. Iraq is engulfed in an escalating civil War. Israel is at war with Lebanon (not merely against Hezbullah). What effect is this having in the Arab, indeed entire Muslim world? The US government cannot be blamed for everything, but they are the only superpower and are deeply involved in the Middle East. If they so choose, they can use their immense power to deter excesses, to reward compromise, to broker peace. If peace is what they want; at this point, I'm not so sure. CIARAN MAC AONGHUSA, CHURCHTOWN, D14 * I write this letter from a neutral point of view. I do not condone the vile actions of Hezbollah. Neither do I believe Israel can justify the distressing and almost exclusively civilian death toll in Lebanon through the farcical pretext of "self defence". Nevertheless, Gandhi's words are relevant in today's harsh reality, "What difference does it make to the dead, the orphans and the homeless, whether the mad destruction is wrought under the name of totalitarianism or the holy name of liberty and democracy"? DONAL FITZPATRICK, KNOCKNACARRA, GALWAY 
