middle east
{ Damian Stack 
    October 12 2018 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/sport/gaa/dingle-should-have-narrowed-the-gap-but-not-by-enough-37402525.html }
How East Kerry responded to South Kerry going ahead thanks to a brilliantly executed Bryan Sheehan goal midway through the first half should scare the pants off everybody left in this championship. Any suspicions that East Kerry are a sing-when-you're-winning kind of outfit were blown out of the water there and then. They were where South Kerry would have wanted to have them in the run up to half-time and not a bit of a difference did it make to Jerry O'Sullivan's men. Sheehan's goal didn't rock East Kerry back on their heels, it didn't cow them or knock them from their stride. If anything it was just the opposite. Watching their reaction reminded this observer of the Incredible Hulk - don't make us angry, you wouldn't like us when we're angry. In response to Sheehan's goal East Kerry struck for one of their own straight from the kick-out and it didn't stop there. In the six minute spell to the break they scored 2-3 without reply. It's hard to imagine any team in the championship holding East Kerry when they hit that kind of a purple patch. Having the capacity to do what they were able to do is one thing, having the capacity to (seemingly) turn it on at will is another. You've got to imagine that only those who have first hand experience truly know what it's like to be hit with that sort of whirlwind. Just one team left in this championship knows how irresistible a force East Kerry can be and as luck would have it (or not as the case may be) that team is Dingle Seán Geaney's men were suitably humbled by East Kerry when the sides met in the second round. Dingle conceded a whopping six goals that day and in a strange sort of a way that's going to stand to them this weekend. More so than anybody else who East Kerry have faced this year, Dingle know exactly what it is they're coming up against. They won't be blind-sided. They won't be - to use that dreadfully overused cliché - under any illusions about the scale of the task at hand. Dingle will need to be every bit as tactically aware as they were against Austin Stacks. They'll need to be every bit as defensively solid. They'll need to employ their AFL star Mark O'Connor defensively again. O'Connor played a very clever game against the Rockies, as much a sweeper and a reader as a man-marker. Against arguably the most fearsome full-forward line in the championship - Dr Crokes with Tony Brosnan and Kieran O'Leary can stake a claim there too - it probably makes more sense for him to do that than to man-mark. Cutting out the supply lines to David Clifford and Darragh Roche and co is the best way of stopping them doing the sort of damage they're capable of inflicting. Easier said than done naturally enough. Dingle's tactics against Austin Stacks worked a treat, but East Kerry won't be nearly as reliant upon one player as the Rock were. East Kerry are a multi-headed hydra. Close down one avenue of attack and they'll find another way. In as much as Dingle will have to try and keep it tight as they did, in the second half especially, against Stacks, Dingle are going to have to take the fight to East Kerry. Keep them on the back foot as much as possible and in that they stand a better chance than South Kerry. Dingle have a pretty formidable strike-force led by the irrepressible Paul Geaney. Dingle have scored big during this championship, averaging nearly twenty points a game. That East Kerry are closer to thirty, however, tells you all you need to know. Even should Dingle get the better of matters around the middle - and against Shane McSweeney and Kevin Gorman or the returning Kieran Murphy that's by no means guaranteed - it's hard to see how they can stop East Kerry from doing what they've been doing. All that said everything we've seen from Dingle since the second round tells us this game should be a lot closer than the seventeen point margin between the sides last month. The very fact that Dingle managed to regroup and get to a semi-final tells us that they are a resilient bunch. A defeat like that is more than enough to sink a season, instead of that Dingle - boosted by O'Connor's return unquestionably - knuckled down in a major way. It would be most unwise of East Kerry to think because of their round two victory that this is a done-deal. Equally it would be wrong of us to forget about East Kerry's evolution. The longer this championship goes on, the more games they play, the more cohesive they're going to get, so in as much as Dingle will have improved since the second round there's every reason to think East Kerry will have too and that being the case it's very hard to think they won't be in the final. Take the boy wonder of Kerry football, David Clifford, as an example. While he was good against South Kerry, there's much more to come from him. He seemed to be playing within himself. Admittedly all the truly great players make it look effortless, but if he really hits his straps pity the defender (or defenders) who's marking him. And, of course, it's not all about Clifford. East Kerry have so much quality as their disposal from one to fifteen and beyond (with players returning from injury the depth of their panel is fearsome). They're rightly favoured. Verdict: East Kerry Kerryman 
