middle east
{  
    August 12 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/gore-choice-a-paper-tiger-for-mid-east-26255970.html }
Robert Fisk foresees no great change in the already strong  US bias against Arab interests if Lieberman comes to power  as vice president. WILL American policy towards the Middle East be prejudiced if Joseph Lieberman becomes US vice president in a Democratic election victory? This question posed in all seriousness in both Washington and the Arab world - must be one of the most asinine ever asked in the recent political history of the region. For America's bias towards Israel is so total, its supposed neutrality in the Middle East so false, its abject bullying of the Arabs so routine, that it would need a super-Zionist in the White House to show the most minute shift in policy towards the Jewish state. Indeed, it is an odd reflection on our own reporting of the Middle East that the Jewish origin of US statesmen or diplomats involved in the region is almost always ignored in the West for fear, no doubt, that to do the opposite would in some way be anti-semitic while equally always remarked upon in Israel and the Arab world. We repeat the truism that an official's religion or ethnic origins have nothing to do with his work for his country I suspect we mean ``should'' but the Israelis themselves publicise the Jewish origin of American statesmen or diplomats. For a journalist merely to remind readers that the present US ambassador to Israel, Martin Indyck, is the former head of AIPAC the most powerful Israeli lobby group in the United States and therefore inevitably passionately loyal to the state of Israel is considered bad form. Had he been an Arab or a Muslim, be sure the issue of his possible bias would have been raised in the American media. Similarly when Denis Ross, America's troubleshooter peacemaker to the Middle East, first came to Jerusalem with his diplomatic team, no Western newspaper drew attention to the fact that he and his men were Jewish. In Israel, there was no such hesitation. The Israeli newspaper Maariv called it ``the mission of four Jews'', the paper itself boasting in the words of Haaretz journalist Meron Benvenisti - about the Jewish and even Israeli roots of the team's members. One was said to be a member of Gush Emunim. As Benvenisti, a highly respected and courageous Israeli writer, has himself put it, ``the ethnic origin of American diplomats sent here (to Israel) to promote peace may be irrelevant, but it is hard to ignore the fact that manipulation of the peace process was entrusted by the US in the first place to American Jews, and that at least one member of the State Department team was selected for the task because he represented the views of the American Jewish establishment.'' Thus were the occupied Palestinian territories redefined in State Department parlance as the ``disputed'' territories, the illegality of Israeli occupation being metamorphosed into an argument over real estate. However strong Clinton's connections to Jewish groups in the United States - as Benvenisti goes on - ``lest they be accused of anti-semitism, (the Palestinians) cannot, God forbid, talk about Clinton's `Jewish connection'.'' For this reason, Madeleine Albright's Jewish origins are rarely mentioned in a Middle East context - even when her first visit to the region displayed an almost 100 per cent bias towards Israel, condemning Arab ``terrorism'' while referring to Jewish settlements on occupied land only as ``houses''. When she later dared to criticise Israel for Arab house destruction and settlement building, she was immediately chastised by then prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu's press spokesman. So what should we make of Joseph Lieberman? Well, he apparently supports the move of the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, a step that would have incendiary effects throughout the Middle East but one which President Clinton has already used to threaten the crushed Palestinians after the failure of the Camp David talks. The Israeli press has reminded its readers that Lieberman called Arafat the ``villain'' of peace in a 1997 letter to Clinton. He has urged the president not to ``pressure'' Israel the usual mantra for letting Israel, with full US support, do whatever it wants. Likud's MP Silvan Shalom described Lieberman as ``a strong ally'' of the friends of Israel. Only one Arab journalist suggested that US policy could change under a Lieberman vice-presidency. Gore's ``democratic choice,'' Beirut editor Talal Salman wrote in As Safir, ``comes at a time when the Arabs as a whole are being treated with hatred and degradation.'' True, Lieberman supported the sale to Saudi Arabia of F-15 fighter-bombers. But why not? Isn't Saudi Arabia one @@STYL sw,8 of Washington's most supine allies? @@STYL el,1 @@STYL sw,8.5 As for the Israelis' judgment that Lieberman in the White House will mean no ``major change'', they are absolutely right. It's difficult to see how the United States could move any further towards the Israelis. * The Independent, London 
