middle east
{ Brendan O'Connor 
    February 12 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/keep-on-rocking-the-boat-thats-why-its-a-free-world-26408309.html }
THIS is not meant in any way as an inflammatory statement, but it seems that sometimes it doesn't take a lot to offend some Muslims. Take the latest fatwa that's been in the news. The Dean of the School of Islamic Law and Shari'a at Kuwait University has passed a fatwa condemning a TV show that has taken the Middle East by storm. The same show has now been banned in Algeria for being immoral following protests from that country's main Islamist party, the Movement for a Society of Peace. Aboudjerra Soltani, the leader of that party, said the show was a provocation against society, and attacked its moral values. Whatever your thoughts about You're a Star, you'd have to agree that the issuing of fatwas and pulling it off the air sounds like a bit of an over-reaction to Star Academy, its Middle Eastern equivalent. Despite the outrage, Star Academy is proving hugely popular with ordinary people across the Middle East. On what the Irish Times might call the Arab Street they are apparently talking about little else, and the show is attracting an estimated 80 million votes per episode. Because the show is broadcast at dinner time (an hour every evening and a two-hour special at the weekend - count yourselves lucky), there have even been complaints from restaurateurs who claim their premises are empty on nights the show is on. Star Academy is unIslamic in many ways. That there is democratic voting, where even women are free to vote, renders the show alien to most Middle Eastern countries. That people are getting by on merit rather than who their family are is also a strange one for many Muslim cultures. But the main problem with the show is that men and women are allowed to mix freely and are even living together in a house for the duration of the show. Naturally the house has been branded "a whorehouse" in Saudi, and the Kuwaitis are thinking of bringing in legislation to ban this kind of thing. In general, the show is seen as a godless Western import promoting infidel values in the Middle East. The fact that it is so hugely popular probably angers the hardcore Muslim crowd even more We could, if we wanted to, take all this very badly. We could find it offensive that these people get so vicious about Western imports that celebrate our values of ambition and showbiz and meritocracy and democracy, and celebrity. But we probably won't bother. Most of us aren't too precious about the things we hold dear. Just as there are those who can take a joke and those who can't, when it comes to offence, there are two types of people in the world: there are those who get out of bed looking to be offended; and those who just get on with their own business, secure in their own convictions and not needing everyone else to reinforce their prejudices. For example, many of you will have read in the newspapers during the week that a loyalist website has branded De Valera a Nazi. Next to Gay Byrne, Dev is probably the closest thing we have to a father of the nation, and he is still revered by many. And some people may have been upset that the sacred Dev's name was being taken in vain. But did they go mental in the streets? No. Is anyone dead yet over it? No. And remember too that this extreme provocation came on top of the extreme provocation of Ian Paisley laying into our current President. But you know, most of us just think, 'Sure, that's hardcore loyalists for you, and they might have a point slightly about theDev thing.' Of course, you could argue that that's all different to the Muslim issue, to the fatwas against Star Academy and to the uproar of recent times regarding the cartoons that depicted the Prophet (I'm nervous about using his name. Are we allowed use his name in print? What is the correct spelling?) in a less than flattering light. You could argue that Dev is just Dev and the President is just the President but that the Prophet is really sacred to these people, as is their religion. But then think about the indignities our God goes through on a daily basis in the free-thinking West. He has been depicted in a less than sombre and a less than flattering light in everything from The Simpsons to movies like Dogma (where He was depicted as a woman, of all things - put that in your veiled pipe and smoke it, Johnny Muslim). And never, not once, do I remember mass riots breaking out across the Western world, with people being killed. This is a fairly simple point but it's crucial to all this. UNDER our value system, which we cherish just as much as the Muslims cherish theirs, the current behaviour over these cartoons is extraordinary. We think it's a complete overreaction and we suspect that many hardcore Islamists might be just using this whole cartoons thing as an excuse to cause trouble and incite some more Western hatred. Bear in mind that most of the people rioting haven't even seen the cartoons. In fact, I'd imagine practically none of them has. And those who have, probably had to go well out of their way to see them and get offended. So society practically crumbled across the Middle East on the basis of hearsay. And of course it goes without saying that none of us would have even heard about these bloody cartoons if the Arabs hadn't kicked up such a fuss. Again, these are all basic points, but in our rush to relativism we seem to have forgotten these things: that often you're better off ignoring things you don't approve of that happened on the other side of the world, because by reacting you're only drawing more attention to them and compounding the wrong that's been done against the Prophet or whoever has been mortally blasphemed and degraded. The guy who did the cartoons is probably thrilled. He's probably made a fortune out of them by now. The French satirical magazine that carried the cartoons afresh last week sold out in record time and ran a huge extra print run. Take for example the Rolling Stones playing at the Superbowl last week. They played their hit Start Me Up. But it turns out that Mick Jagger's microphone was turned down for one little bit of the song where he sang the line, "You'd make a dead man come." Tell me honestly, had you ever really meditated on the lyrics to Start Me Up before? You probably thought it was a good guitar riff and that it had some vaguely raunchy words or whatever, but I bet you never made the necrophilia connection. By making a big deal out of it the folks at the Superbowl got the offending reference into every newspaper in the world. Of course, leaving out the dead man coming reference has led the usual anti-American sneerers to suggest that America, the land of the free, the home of the brave and the home of rock 'n' roll and all that isn't such a free country itself. Free speech is no more to be found in America than it is in the Middle East, has been the suggestion. This is, if you will permit the expression, bollocks. It is doubtful in the first place whether anyone on the Christian Right or in Middle America, or whatever term we're using to demonise Americans who aren't coastal movie people this week, would have even noticed the reference in Start Me Up. The song has been played with impunity on the radio for years, and has even been used in high-profile corporate ad campaigns. I reckon that on this occasion the Superbowl people were probably just a bit nervous about the half-time performances since Janet Jackson's tit popped out that other time. Anyway, even if the Christian Right had copped it and got a bee in their best bonnet, they would merely have given out on the radio and TV about Mick Jagger's foul mouth. There certainly wouldn't have been riots the length and breadth of the free world. Then again, we in the free world have outlets for our frustration. We can complain about things in our free press. We can complain to our government about things we disapprove of. We can vote our government out if we wish. We can even ring Joe Duffy. And, like him or not, ringing Joe Duffy is a damn sight better than taking to the streets and going mental every time you get offended. As the public intellectuals of the West have clamoured this past week to vilify a cartoonist and Western media, and defend the madmen who have wildly over-reacted to this whole thing, they have been at pains to point out that not all Muslims are like this. And they're right. Some 80 million of them are apparently happy to sit at home watching a talent competition set in a whorehouse. That seems to be the real Arab Street, the one we never hear of. But they're the people who never win. For example, when Bahrain tried to run a Big Brother it had to be pulled off the air. Why? Because two people kissed in it and there, were - you guessed it - riots on the streets. 
