middle east
{  
    September 18 2012 09:02 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/americas/us-elections/mitt-romney-makes-basic-errors-on-middle-east-at-same-fundraiser-as-dependants-gaffe-28811328.html }
MITT Romney has warned that Iran would try and infiltrate an independent Palestinian state in order to threaten Israel via Syria and Jordan, in remarks laden with basic errors about borders and strategic alliances in the Middle East. In a leaked video, the Republican candidate also said that as president he would treat the Middle East as an “unsolved problem” and make little effort towards a solution. “We kick the ball down the field and hope that ultimately, somehow, something will happen and resolve it," he said. He failed to show any appreciation of the different Palestinian camps, accusing them all of seeking to destroy Israel. "I look at the Palestinians not wanting to see peace anyway, for political purposes, committed to the destruction and elimination of Israel, and these thorny issues, and I say there's just no way," he said. Gaza, the smaller occupied territory, is indeed controlled by the militants of Hamas, who refuse to recognise Israel and have been a major obstacle to peace. The West Bank however is controlled by Fatah, which renounces violence and long ago signed up to the so-called “two state” peace process. The remarks were recorded secretly at the same fundraising event where Mr Romney dismissed 47pc of Americans as welfare dependents whose votes he had no hope of winning. Those comments, released on Monday, are regarded as potentially calamitous to his battle for the White House with Barack Obama. A new clip released by Mother Jones features a long answer on the Israel-Palestinian dispute, in which Mr Romney states that a new Palestinian state in the West Bank would border “Syria at one point or Jordan”. “Of course the Iranians would want to do through the West Bank exactly what they did through Lebanon and what they did near Gaza. Which is the Iranians would want to bring missiles and armaments in to the West Bank and potentially threaten Israel,” he said. In referring to Syria, Mr Romney appeared to be thinking of the Golan Heights, which were seized by Israel from Syria in 1967. The area has however never been claimed by the Palestinians and does not border the West Bank, the occupied territory that would form the bulk of an independent Palestinian state. At the nearest point, the Golan Heights and the West Bank are 23 miles apart. Mr Romney correctly stated that the new state would share a border with Jordan, but the Hashemite kingdom is an historically of the West and in 1994 became the second Arab state to recognise Israel. Jordan remains deeply suspicious of Iran’s regional ambitions, and the notion that it would tolerate any infiltration or interference from Tehran is nonsensical to anyone with a passing knowledge of Middle Eastern politics. Mr Romney’s factual errors may further erode confidence in his command of foreign policy, after last week’s ill-judged response to anti-US protests in the Middle East. Though many American voters may agree that the Middle East is a lost cause, US presidents are expected to push for a solution, as the continuing failure to find peace is regarded as a major cause of instability in the region. In July, Mr Romney faced derision at home and in Britain for suggesting on the eve of a visit to London during the Olympics that the host city was ill-prepared.  By Alex Spillius Telegraph.co.uk 
